Rep Plus Conceptual Representation Software RepGrids Manual Managing and Analyzing Collections of Grids May 2021 Brian R Gaines and Mildred L G Shaw http://cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~gaines/repplus/ Contents Contents i 1 RepGrids—Managing and Analyzing Collections of Grids 1 1.1 Methodology of multiple grid analyses—classes, common items . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1.2 RepGridstools ....................................... 2 1.3 RepGridsfiles ....................................... 3 1.4 Creating,savingandopeningcollectionsofgrids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.5 RepGridswindow ..................................... 4 2 Grids Pane 5 2.1 Openingagridforanalysisorediting .......................... 6 2.2 Selectinggridsforanalysis ................................ 7 2.3 Settingglobalparametersforanalyses .......................... 7 2.3.1 Defininggrididentifiersforanalyses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.4 Creatingandanalyzingcompositegrids ......................... 9 3 Socio Pane 13 3.1 Socionetspanel ...................................... 14 3.1.1 Socionetsplot ................................... 14 3.1.2 Socionetsdata .................................. 17 3.1.3 Socionetsoutlierdetection ........................... 18 3.2 Modegridpanel ...................................... 20 3.2.1 Modegridgeneration .............................. 21 3.2.2 Modegriddata .................................. 23 3.3 Gridswithbothelementsandconstructsincommon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 3.3.1 Socionets of grids with both elements and constructs in common . . . . . . 24 3.3.2 Mode grids when both elements and constructs are in common . . . . . . . 25 3.4 Batchanalysispanel .................................... 26 3.5 Classmetagridsandselectionpanel ........................... 27 3.5.1 Creatingaclassmetagrid ............................ 27 3.5.2 Loadingaclassmetagrid ............................. 28 3.5.3 Analysisofaclassmetagrid ........................... 29 4 Histo Pane 31 4.1 Distribution panel: analysis of overall distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 4.1.1 Meangridgeneration .............................. 32 4.1.2 Meanandstandarddeviationdata ....................... 33 4.1.3 Histogramsofdistributions ........................... 35 4.1.4 Histogramparameterspanel .......................... 37 4.2 Comparingdistributions ................................. 37 4.2.1 Comparetwoclassesofdistributionspanel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 4.2.2 Comparisonhistograms ............................. 39 4.2.3 Comparisondata ................................. 45 5 Compare Pane 48 5.1 Comparetwogridspanel ................................. 48 5.2 Stylesforgridsandnetscreatedinanalysispanel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 6 Content Pane 51 6.1 The interplay between content analysis and other grid analysis methods . . . . . . . 51 6.2 Populatingthecontentpane ............................... 52 6.2.1 Controls for hiding columns and reversing constructs, and popup menu . . . 55 6.2.2 Popupmenucommands ............................. 55 6.3 Groupingsimilaritems .................................. 56 6.3.1 Groupingthroughthepopupmenu ....................... 58 6.4 Exportingcontentanalysisdata ............................. 59 6.5 Numerical measures supporting content analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 6.5.1 Honey/Jankowiczindices ............................ 62 6.5.2 Sociomatchandmodevalues .......................... 64 6.5.3 Aligningthroughthepopupmenu ....................... 68 6.6 Textualsearch ....................................... 70 6.7 Classifyingthegroupings ................................. 72 7 Scripts Pane 75 7.1 Complexityscript ..................................... 76 7.2 GetSocioDatascript ................................... 78 7.3 GridDatascript ...................................... 82 7.4 GridOverviewsscript ................................... 83 7.5 BulkEditingGrids ..................................... 84 8 RepGrids File Organization 86 8.1 RepGridsfilepointers ................................... 86 8.2 RepGrids scripts and default grids and nets—GridsScripts directories . . . . . . . . 87 8.2.1 Structureofdefaultgridsandnets ....................... 88 9 Appendix 1: Data Sets Used in the RepGrids Manual 90 9.1 Study of a research group specializing in geographic mapping techniques . . . . . . . 90 9.2 Studyofaballroomdancecommunity .......................... 90 9.3 Study of product development in a manufacturing company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 9.4 Studyofknowledgeengineeringforexpertsystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 10 Bibliography 92 1 RepGrids—Managing and Analyzing Collections of Grids Most studies based on the elicitation of conceptual grids result in a collection of data that includes many files: grids; analyses; research notes; and so on, that record the progress of the study and re.quires management. The RepGrids tool was designed to manage the grids elicited during the study and make them readily accessible to various analytic tools, both as individual grids and as stratified collections of grids. RepGrids is a generic tool for managing arbitrary collections of grids, providing ease of access to analyses of particular grids (individually or in in batch mode), comparisons of pairs of grids, and analysis of sub-collections of grids that are related in some way. It also provides scriptable access to the grid data for purposes such as batch editing, custom analyses and export to other programs. It is the primary tool for analyses of combinations of grid with elements, constructs or both in common, and for content analysis of grid relevant to a common domain. 1.1 Methodology of multiple grid analyses—classes, common items The methodological framework for grid comparison discussed in the RepGrid manual and its discus.sion of common elements and constructs applies to most of the multiple grid analyses in RepGrids, many of which may be seen as extension of the pairwise comparison methods to multiple grids that have some commonality. In particular the diagrams used in that manual may be extended to apply to multiple grid analysis methods. Figure 1: Comparison of multiple grids with some or no common elements and/or constructs The underlying methodological principles remain the same: that there may be elements in some subset of the grids with lexically identical names, constructs having the same name and pole names, and it may be hypothesized that the community under study intends items with the same names to be coreferential. RepGrids identifies commonality in the selected grids dynamically showing the number of com.mon elements and constructs as soon as a set of grids is selected, and making the same information available in all analysis panes. The lexical basis of the identification is not problematic if grids have been generated with common items using RepGrid’s capabilities to copy a grid in part with only ele.ments, only constructs, or both but without ratings. However, if grid data from a study has been en.tered manually then errors in the entry of element and construct identifiers may cause the expected identification to fail, but this is readily seen and traced through the dynamic counts. An additional type of association significant for larger sets of grids is that between those from whom the grids have been elicited, that they may be classified along different dimensions such as job role, gender or education, and that the analyses should be stratified along these dimensions. Rep-Grids allows an arbitrary subset of grids to be selected for analysis, and this can be controlled by class metagrids representing stratifications of the community being studied. Some analyses in RepGrids are possible when grids have no computer-detectable commonality but possible human-detectable relationships, others when they have either elements or constructs lexically in common, and others only when they have both. Examples are provided of all such possi.bilities. There may also be no commonality between the grids in a RepGrids collection, just the conve.nience of being able to view them together as a set of grid data and process any of them individually. However, there is usually some association between the grids in a collection, for example, that they are part of the same study or that they are not only to be analyzed together but also in combination. 1.2 RepGrids tools The Grids tool supports managing the collection, setting global parameters, defining the form of identifier for each grid that will be used in the analyses, and generating composite grids from selected grids with common elements or constructs. The Socio tools provide current versions of Shaw’s (1980) SOCIOGRIDS analyses which gener.ates socionets based on the strength of matches between grids, and mode grids based on the con.structs (for grids with common elements) or elements (for grids with common constructs only) that are used, or construed, similarly by those in the selected community. The Batch analysis tool enables the main RepGrid analyses (Synopsis, Display, Focus, PrinGrid) to be run on a selected set of grids. The Class metagrids and selection tool manages one or more class grids, metagrids where the elements are the data grids in the collection and the constructs serve to classify those from whom the grid were elicited, in whatever terms the researcher wishes to use to stratify the community be.ing studied. RepGrid classes may be used to specify intersects of these constructs that further extend the classification. The analysis tools in RepGrids can use the class metagrids to stratify the various analyses and the presentation of their results. The Defaults tool manages the default grid and default net that are used as templets by the vari.ous RepGrids analyses, allowing the styling of the outputs from these analyses to be customized. The Histo tools provide a family of techniques for analyzing the distributions of ratings when a sets of grids have both elements and constructs in common. They allow the distributions to be plotted as histograms, together with their means and standard deviations. When classes have been defined to stratify the community they allow comparative histograms to be plotted, together with statistics estimating the probability that they are drawn from the same distribution. The Compare tool allows the grid comparison tool from RepGrid to be run on any pair of grids selected from the collection. The Content tool supports the content analysis of constructs or elements from selected collec.tions of grids which may have elements, constructs or neither, in common. In particular it supports the human capability to identify items that are similar in meaning even if they are not lexically iden.tically, and to group these items for analysis as if they were a single item. It presents the elements or, more usually, the constructs in a spreadsheet-like format having outliner features, where rows rep.resenting similar items may be dragged together and grouped into a single representative item. It fa.cilitates the process by making available measures such as the centrality indices specified by Honey (1979) and Jankowicz (2004) and the mode and match indices specified by Shaw (1980), if the data is such as to support their calculation. The Script tool provides the capability to run programs written in RepScript that have full ac.cess to the data in all the grids in a collection. The analyses in RepGrids may be replicated in scripts and extended or new ones developed. This is the appropriate environment in which to develop multi-grid analyses and it is also useful for developing single grid analyses because they may be tested readily on collections of grids. 1.3 RepGrids files RepGrids files save pointers to the grid files in a collection together with any param.eters selected for the various analyses. When reopened the grid data and parameters are reloaded, enabling one to save work in progress and reopen it in the same state. Thus a RepGrids file behaves as if it were a database of grids, except that the grids themselves continue to be stored as separate files. A particular grid file may be included in several RepGrids collections, and the grids in a collec.tion may be stored anywhere on the computer. In practice, it is usually convenient to manage grid collections using the directory structure provided by the computer operating system, and the grids in a RepGrids collection are often in a single directory or in subdirectories of a single directory. Such directories may contain other files associated with a project such as text documents, Rep Plus analyses, and so on. Rep Plus recognizes grid files and does not load files that do not represent grids. 1.4 Creating, saving and opening collections of grids Figure 2: The RepGrids panel in the Rep Plus Manager window A new RepGrids window may be created from the Rep Plus Manager window (Figure 2) by clicking in one of the buttons in the RepGrids panel: New to create an empty RepGrids window; or Open Files to create a RepGrids window and load any grid files from a specified directory—this can also be achieved by dragging the directory icon to the Manager Window or the Rep Plus application icon. A RepGrids window may be saved at any time using the usual file menu options Save and Save As... commands. The window position and size are also saved but moving and resizing the window are not treated as undoable actions so the Save options is always active enabling a change in the win.dow geometry to be saved if desired. A RepGrids file can be opened in the usual ways: by double-clicking its icon; by dragging it to the Manager window or the Rep Plus application icon; by clicking Open in the RepGrids pane of the Manager window; by using the File menu commands Open Recent or Open...; or by keying command-O. 1.5 RepGrids window Figure 3 shows the initial window when the directory entitled Geog containing a collection of files from a study of a small research group specializing geographic mapping techniques (Appendix §9.1) has been opened in RepGrids. Figure 3: RepGrids window showing the Grids pane The Title field at the top left is common to all the panes (except Scripts) and is used to identify the set of grids in some of the analyses. If the grids are added from a directory the title is set to the directory name but it can be changed appropriately. The Add Grid and Add Grids button at the bottom right allow a single grid, or a directory of grids to added to the collection—dragging the grid or directory icon the RepGrids window is usu.ally the preferred way of dong this. The Composite button merges a number of grids into a single composite grid (§2.4). Along the top left are six tabs corresponding to the different tools described above. Clicking on any them shows a pane providing access to the specific tool or tool set. The features of each pane are described in the following sections. Grids Pane Figure 3 shows the Grids Pane that tabulates all the grids in the collection, controls their selection for some analyses and enables global parameters common to most analyses to be set. For ease of manipulation and identification, the grids are shown in a tabular format by row num.ber, file name, name and note in grid, number of elements and constructs, and the date, time and place of elicitation or entry. 2.1 Opening a grid for analysis or editing Double-clicking in any row opens a copy of the grid file referenced in that row for examination and analysis on the assumption the intention is not to edit the original grid file. A note that the grid shown is a copy is placed in the Grid Annotation field ahead of any existing annotation (Figure 4). Figure 4: Double-click opens a copy of a grid for inspection and analysis Right-clicking or CTL-clicking in a row brings up a menu providing an option to open a copy of the grid together with options that support the editing of the original grid (Figure 5): Open copy Same as double-clicking; Open actual Opens the grid file on disk for editing rather than a copy; Refresh data Refreshes the grid data in RepGrids from the edited and saved grid files, however they were opened; Refresh and renumber Refreshes the grid data and consecutively renumbers the list of grids. Saving the RepGrids window also refreshes and renumbers the grids and is a simpler way to capture a series of changes after the list of grids, the grids, or both have been edited. Figure 5: Right-click shows a popup menu supporting grid editing 2.2 Selecting grids for analysis The various analysis tools in RepGrids generally use as data the collection of grids that have been selected in the Grids Pane, and various means are provided to manage such selection. Grids may be selected manually by clicking on the rows in the table, and are initially all selected. Multiple rows may be selected by holding down the shift key for contiguous selections and the com.mand key for non-contiguous selections, consistent with the normal conventions of the Mac and Windows operating systems. When a set of grids is added they are all selected automatically. If metagrids have been used to classify the grid data (§3.5) then the classes defined may also be used to select collections of grids for analysis. The table of grids may be sorted by the contents of any column by clicking on the title at the head of that column. Clicking when the column is already selected reverses the sort order. Figure 6 shows the grids pane sorted by clicking on the Note header to bring the 7 grids with Agreed tech.niques together. Clicking again on this column will reverse the sort order. The row order may also be changed by selecting one or more rows and dragging them to another location. The row numbers do not change when the row order is changed so that the effect of sorting or changing is apparent and can be reversed by sorting on the row number. However, if the window is saved and reopened from its file, or the Refresh and renumber option (§2.1) is selected then the rows numbers will be in numerical order. 2.3 Setting global parameters for analyses The bottom panel of the grids pane (Figure 7) shows the dynamic count of the number of com.mon elements and constructs in the selected grids and, if there are both, the radio buttons provide a global choice of whether analyses will be based on common elements, common constructs, or both. They are set initially to either the items with the higher count or to Both if there is a high proportion of both common elements and common constructs Figure 6: Clicking on a header to sort the grids by the data in a column Figure 7: Global parameter setting in the bottom panel of the Grids Pane The Power field sets the value of the of the Minkowski metric used in match-based analyses (as discussed in the RepGrid Manual). When the value is other than 1.0 it is shown in the headers of the Socio and Compare panes as a reminder of a nonstandard value, and it is also included in the titles of any analyses. This value is also transferred to grids created in the course of various analyses so that any further analysis of those grids will use the specified value. 2.3.1 Defining grid identifiers for analyses In analyses of multiple grids it is often important to identify particular grids and to do so in a way that is significant to those interpreting the analyses, for example, by elicitee’s name, an identifying note, or similar information. The bottom row of the panel specifies the form of identifier to be used to identify grids in the various analyses. If no box is checked then Name is assumed by default. The same choices of ID, Name, Notes, Date, Time are provided as for RepGrid but there also options for additional annota.tion of the items, constructs and elements, with the first line of their note (if there is one), and with their number in the grid. This is particularly useful with some types of elements, such as the names of people, where, for example, a role entered in the note field may be more significant than the name. The ID value will be the value of the ID Item in the grid if there is one and, if not, the file name. This is particularly useful with manually entered grid data where the name field may not have been used. The other options are useful if there are multiple grids from the same person and further iden.tification through the note, date or time fields is needed. 2.4 Creating and analyzing composite grids The Composite button creates a composite grid, of the common elements and all the constructs of the selected grids, or the common constructs and all the elements of the selected grids. It lists the grid identifiers in the Grid Annotation field, and puts the grid and item identifi.cation in the note field of the non-common constructs or elements, respectively for use in some analyses of the composite grid. Figure 11 shows 7 grids having common elements selected to create a composite grid. Since some of the grids are from the same person different dates, the checkbox to add the Date to the identifier has also been clicked. Figure 9 shows the grid produced when the Composite button is clicked. Figure 8: Selecting 7 grids to form a composite based on common elements Figure 9: Composite grid created from grids selected in Figure 3 The analysis tools in RepGrid allow the note fields for elements and constructs to be shown in parentheses in the various analyses, as illustrated in the top part of a Focus analysis of the composite grid shown in Figure 10. RepGrids automatically presets the parameters for showing the note fields for all RepGrid analyses in the grids it creates. The weights of items in the original grids are copied into the composite grid and hence may be used in later analysis. The weights for the common items are taken from the first of the selected grids. If these weights are used in an analysis of the composite grid, it is important to ensure in the grid elicitation process that participants understand and use weight values in a mutually consistent manner. The use of the Compare algorithms to compare grids may be complemented in RepGrids by using the capability to form a composite grid of a collection of grids with both common elements and common constructs and then analyzing those grids with the RepGrid and RepNet tools. For example, in the Geog study there are two exchange grids elicited from Peter some 10 weeks (grid 16) and some 3 years (grid 22) after the original elicitation (grid 12). One can form a com.posite grid based on the common constructs in the original and later grids and perform a PrinGrid analysis. Figure 11 shows these 3 grids selected to form a composite grid. In RepNet one can then run the script PrinGrid Trajectories which joins up the locations in the plot of the elements having the same names but come from different grids (as indicated in the note field) to produce the plot shown in Figure 12. PrinGrid uses the Creator item stored in the grid to identify it as one that was generated by the RepGrids Composite tool and sets the current script to of the net to be PrinGrid Trajectories so that a double-click in the net will automatically run the script. It can also be run from the popup menu. The trajectories plotted may be used to discuss with the person from whom the grid was elicited the ways in which his construction of the mapping techniques appears to have changed over time, and whether this is meaningful to him. For example, the movements of several elements, such as Most predictable surface and Probability mapping, between June and August 1987 seem to have par.tially reversed by August 1990—does this reflect a change and then a reversal of assessment? It is also appropriate to investigate metaquestions such as whether the underlying assumptions of the analysis are reasonable, that the construct dimensions are the same in each grid and the elements have changed along them. A composite grid can also be created based on common elements, and again analyzed in PrinGrid and PrinGrid Trajectories to show the changes in the constructs assuming that the elements are unchanged. Socio Pane Clicking on the Socio tab in the RepGrid window with the 7 grids selected shown in Figure 11 brings up the pane shown below (Figure 13). It has four panels: Socionets and Mode grid that implement Shaw’s (1980) SOCIOGRIDS collective analysis of multiple grids with common elements, constructs or both; Batch analysis that provides the capability to analyze multiple grids individually; Class meta-grids that use the constructs and classes in a grid whose elements are the grids in the RepGrids database to stratify those grids for various RepGrids analyses. The Socionets and Mode grid buttons are initially disabled until the Socio button at the top right has been clicked and a Socio analysis has been computed (and the Socio button disappears). If the grids selected or basis of comparison is changed the Socio button reappears to re-run the analysis but, otherwise, one can move freely between the panes, for example to change the form of grid identifier. When the Socio Analysis button is clicked, RepGrids displays a progress bar whilst computing a Socio analysis and displays the results as shown in the panels below. Depending on the setting of the radio buttons and the Power value at the bottom of the Grids pane, similarities between the constructs, elements, or both in the selected grids are computed using the algorithms described in (Shaw, 1980), and these are used to determine the socionets and the mode constructs or elements, or average grid, associated with the selected grids. The settings of the Identifier panel (§2.3.1) determine what annotation will be used to identify grids or items in the analyses. 3.1 Socionets panel The Socionets panel (Figure 14) allows a network of grids to be plotted in RepNet that use the grid compari.son match data to show the extent to which the items in one grid may be used to anticipate the items in another grid, the comprehensibility of another person’s concep.tual system, and the match data itself to be exported as text or used to create a class metagrid for outlier man.agement. The text at the top of the panel shows: the number of grids with links at the current cut off value; the cut off value at which all grids are linked; the maximum cut off value for every grid to have at least one link; and the cut off value at which no grids are linked. 3.1.1 Socionets plot The bottom line of controls is used to manage the plot. The value of the cut off determines how great a similarity is needed before a link is shown initially, but the plot is dynamic and one can adjust the cut off in RepNet. The Title check box determines whether the plot is titled. The Scale value deter.mines the size of the initial plot. The Cut off value determines the initial level of the link value below which links will not be made visible in the plot. Clicking on the Socionets button generates a plot showing one of the family of possible socionets with the links visible whose values are not below the specified cut off (Figure 15). The arrows from Mary 1987-06-04 to Peter 1987-06-04 indicates that the average over all the constructs in Peter’s grid of the matches of the best-matched constructs in Mary’s grid is greater than or equal to the cut off, indicating that Mary should be capable of understanding Peter’s construc.tions. Clicking in the check box at the bottom left displays the actual match values as labels on the arrows with the value nearest an arrow head being that of the link to the grid at that arrow head (Figure 16). The cut off is shown as part of the socionets plot the bottom centre and also in the text box at the bottom left. It may be adjusted by typing a different value in that text box, or by clicking on the triangular markers on either side of it to change to the next value of cut off that changes the num.ber of links. The links come and go as the cutoff is changed This allows the socionets structure to be explored dynamically. The plot is a net in RepNet and can be edited, saved in a file and opened again. One can drag the nodes around to make the plot more understandable. One can also copy and paste into a single net socionets generated with different cut off values (Figure 17). The centre plot in this diagram is the active one, and the ones to its left and right were created by copying and pasting the centre one at different cut off values. When pasted the plot becomes static and not subject to changes when the cut off is changed. The plot on the left was generated at the lowest cut off at which there are only links between the same individual at different times. It can be seen that, at this level, Peter in June 1987 is able to match his constructions in August 1987 and August 1990, and in August 1990 shows a similar pattern, but not in 1987, which corresponds to the reversals already noted in the PrinGrid trajectories. The plot on the right was generated at the lowest cut off at which Peter and Charlie in 1987 are not connected, and shows the role of Mary as an intermediary between them at that time, with Pe.ter in 1990 able to adopt a similar role to Mary. The plot in the centre was generated at the lowest cut off at which Mary in 1987 could match Charlie’s constructions in August, and also shows at that level a close relationship between her con.structions in June 1987 and Peter’s in August 1990. Such an analysis of a set of grids generated by members of a group over a period of time on a topic central to the group’s collaboration can be used to facilitate the group’s discussion of its dy.namics. and to provide insights into issues of communication and the different roles being played. It can also be used to model conceptual relationships and changes within the group. The style of the socionets graphics is that of the default net specified for the RepGrids default net, and can be changed by choosing an alternative default net. It is apparent that every aspect of the presentation may be changed, for example, dashed lines, a different arrow head for the lower valued end of a symmetric link, the term “Cut off” changed to “Threshold”, and so on. A good technique for dragging the nodes to positions that make the graph structure more ap.parent is to start with a high cut off value where few nodes are linked, drag those nodes to be close together, and the lower the cutoff a few steps at a time dragging the newly linked nodes to appro.priate positions and adjusting the previous nodes as necessary. Cliques of mutually connected grids become apparent as do lightly connected or disconnected grids. 3.1.2 Socionets data The top line of controls in the Socionets panel (Figure 19) is used to manage textual output of the grid comparison data being used in the socionets plots. On the left the grid matches may be output as a sorted list, either for all the grids or just those for a selected grid. On the right the full matrix of match data may be output. Figure 19: Socionets data panel Figure 20 shows the matrix and the initial section of the sorted list. 3.1.3 Socionets outlier detection Outlier detection has long been treated as a major issue in data quality control from Tukey’s (1962) vacuum cleaner techniques for removing residuals prior to analysis to modern developments where the detection and control of the effects of outliers are fully incorporated in the foundations of statis.tical methods (Aggarwal, 2013). Conceptual grid studies are no exception, and one important use of the socionets match data is the detection of outliers in a collection of grids intended to be representative of some community of practice (Wenger, 1998). Large-scale community studies that collect tens or hundreds of grids to compare conceptual structures of sub-communities stratified in various ways need to ensure that all participants are representative of the communities, have understood what has been requested and are supplying data in good faith. The Socio grid comparison data may be used to model the conceptual structures of a commu.nity in terms of the degree of mutual understanding of the domain under investigation and identify cliques of closely related construing as well as outliers whose interpretation of constructs expected or intended to be common is very different from other members of the community. However, diver.sity can a significant strength of a community or organization so that any statistical indication that a grid is an outlier needs to be investigated further to determine whether that is an indication of poor data or, for example, of an individual providing a different perspective significant for the community dynamics. In particular, when comparing sub-communities it may be that an entire community is coherent in itself but an outlier to the community as a whole, for example one having particular expertise not generally shared, and it may be appropriate to stratify the outlier analysis by the same criteria used to stratify the community. RepGrids provides the tools to do this but their use needs to be part of the management of the study by those with an understanding of its purpose and the dynamics of the community being studied. One outlier detection technique is provide by the capability to output the matches of all the grids with a particular grid that is regarded as highly representative of the community, perhaps generated specifically to represent the expected or required norms of the community, or those of a highly re.garded representative, or a mode grid (§3.2) representing the central tendencies of the community, or a particular sub-community. The menu in the centre of the data panel (Figure 19) enables a reference grid to be selected, in this example the initial grid of the senior member of the group. If the radiobuttons are used to select this menu rather than All then the List checkbox outputs the matches of the remaining grids to that selected in decreasing order of match, and the Grid checkbox outputs a class metagrid (§3.5) with a single construct whose ratings are the matches to the reference grid. The values are initially cate.gorized as low if they are below the cut off specified and high otherwise, but these categories may be changed and others added by editing the grid. Figure 21 shows the numeric and categoric displays in RepGrid of a small class metagrid to.gether with a crossplot graphic display of the data. The three presentations show the relation be.tween the match data of Figure 20, the categories at a cut off of 76, and the outlier detection where Charlie 1987-08-21 is clearly separated from the other grids. This example, involving only 6 grids probably does not require outlier detection. Figure 22 shows similar analysis of a larger community where the technique may be useful. The grid A10 appears as a definite outlier requiring further investigation as mught the cluster from A29 to A32 with matches under 75%. The metagrid may be added to the dataset and used to control the election of the grids being an.alyzed, enabling the sensitivity of results to the inclusion of outliers to be investigated. If a class grid stratifying the community is being used then a composite class grid may be generated and analyzed in RepGrid to investigate how the outlier construct clusters with the stratification constructs. Class grids may be generated for different reference grids, for example, representing different sub-communities, and used to detect potential outliers from those specific sub-communities. These may also be merged for analysis with RepGrid tools and clustering with stratification class grids, and on on. They are important tools to support “drilling down” into a dataset to investigate hypotheses and increase understanding of the community being investigated. 3.2 Mode grid panel The Mode Grid panel allows a composite Mode Grid (Shaw, 1980) to be created from the grids based on the constructs or elements most commonly used in all of them. The top line of controls is used to manage the creation of a mode grid. The number of mode items which will be included depends on the value set in the Cut off text box, and the message at the top of the panel indicates the number of items that will be included at the value entered together with the number for values either side of it. This helps the analyst determine an appropriate value for the cut off. The mode score of an item is computed as the mean across grids of the highest match of that item to all items in every other grid, and measures the degree of consensuality of the item. The Include check box on the left allows the grid selected on the popup menu to the right of it to be fully incorporated in the Mode Grid if required. The Identifier panel on the Grids pane provides the capability to annotate the items in the Mode Grid as already described. 3.2.1 Mode grid generation Clicking on the Mode Grid button outputs the mode grid in RepGrid for analysis (Figure 24). As discussed for composite grids, the grid identifiers are entered in the Grid Annotation field, and the grid and item identification are entered in the note field of the constructs or elements, re.spectively for use in some analyses of the mode grid The weights of items in the original grids are copied into the mode grid. The generation of a mode grid is an important technique for extracting commonality in con.ceptual representations from a number of people, typically construing the same elements. Using PrinGrid to produce a principal components analysis of the mode grid in RepGrid provides the same type of analysis as a generalized Procrustes analysis (Gower and Dijksterhuis, 2004) of the grid data, but has the major advantage that the mode grid being analyzed is a composite of individual grids with no introduction of artificial ratings. A Focus analysis (Figure 25) of the mode grid can clarify how the constructs from particular individuals relate to one another and contribute to the com.monality, and the identifiers appended to different items enable the sources of commonality and difference to be identified. Three major clusters are apparent in the constructs and five in the elements. One problem with a basic mode grid analysis that is apparent is that very similar constructs may duplicate one another. In particular this is a problem in cluttering a principal components analysis to the extent it is dif.ficult to comprehend. The Content tool (§6) may be used with mode grid data to group items that are similar textually and generate more perspicuous analyses. When, for example, constructs are grouped into a compound construct with averaged ratings, the construct weight corresponds to the number of items in the group, and a weighted analysis can be used to take into account the signifi.cance of that consensual construct across the community. 3.2.2 Mode grid data The second line of controls in the “Mode Grid” panel is used to manage textual output of the mode items as list sorted by their average matches across all selected grids which provides a measure of their commonality. The list of mode constructs sorted by match values is useful in deciding where to set the cut off when creating a mode grid since it is possible to see the effect of various cut off values, and where natural gaps occur in the list. It also makes it apparent what grids are contributing to the mode and best reflect the consensus of the group. The sorted mode constructs are shown in part below. 3.3 Grids with both elements and constructs in common When grids have both elements and constructs in common it is possible to com.pare them as exchange grids based on the differences in the ratings on the common items. Socionets can be generated as before based on the overall matches between grids, but the natural measure of consensus across the group is now an average grid rather than a mode grid. Figure 27 shows the Grids pane for data from Project67 (Shaw and Gaines, 1991), a study in which members of a product development team developing microwave ovens used repertory grids in a pre-web distributed conceptual modelling tool in order to study their group processes. The first grid represents the chief executive’s assessment of a range of existing and potential products, and the four members of the product development team entered their own ratings of the elements on the constructs in that grid, adding extra items as they saw fit. The ninth grid is an av.erage of the first eight grids created as described below and added to the set of grids so as to appear in the socionets. The tenth grid is from an external consultant who both rated the chief executive’s exchange grid and also greatly extended it with additional elements and constructs. The Count Same panel shows the grids as having eight elements and ten constructs in common, and offers analyses based on the common elements, common constructs, or both, with Both initially selected as the most likely option. 3.3.1 Socionets of grids with both elements and constructs in common The Socionets panel operates in the same way for grids with both elements and constructs in com.mon. However, exchange grid matches are intrinsically symmetric so the plots have undirected lines rather than directed arrows and there is a single match value (Figure 28). The nodes have been dragged to reduce line crossings and make the relationships more apparent. The socionet on the left shows the CEO disconnected, the consultant and marketing director form.ing a clique with the average, the three product line managers and the sales director forming a clique with the average, and the technical and production directors each forming a clique with the Starlight product line manager and the average. The socionet on the right at a lower cut off value shows the CEO forming a clique with the consultant, marketing director and average. The new CEO who com.missioned the study was appointed because the company was losing market share, and brought in a marketing consultant so the socionets reflecting commonality in construing are not surprising. 3.3.2 Mode grids when both elements and constructs are in common For grids being analyzed with both elements and constructs in common the mode grid computation only uses matches between constructs having the same name. It also provides the capability to fold lexically identical constructs into a single con.struct having the mean of their ratings. It puts the number of constructs averaged in the weight field of the mean construct enabling the number of constructs represented to be used to weight analyses as if the constructs had been included rather than folded. The mode grid panel provides additional controls enabling folding to be selected and the number of decimal places in the mean ratings to be specified (Figure 29). If the number of decimal places is set to be zero, the mean values are rounded and the construct type is ratings, otherwise it is numbers. Figure 30 left shows the mode grid with DP set to 0, and right with it set to 1 and the weights shown. If the cut off is set to zero then all the constructs of the selected grids will be included and the folded mode grid will be a mean grid representing the average of the ratings over all the grids se.lected. For grids having only elements or only constructs in common, lexically-based folding cannot be used but the grouping capability of the content analysis tool (§6) may be used to achieve folding manually based on human assessment that two constructs have very similar meaning. 3.4 Batch analysis panel It is useful to be able to perform the standard analyses available in RepGrid with a collection of grids in RepGrids. The Batch analysis (Figure 31) panel enables the specified analyses to be output for the selected grids. This facility is particularly useful for quality control when a new set of grids is to be analyzed since the Synopsis tool provides a rapid appraisal of each grid. Figure 32 shows the four analyses produced of the mean grid from Project67 when the Batch analysis button is clicked. Figure 32: Batch analysis of mean grid for internal staff of Project67 3.5 Class metagrids and selection panel It is useful with a collection of grids to be able to be able to stratify the collection into various sub-collections by categorizing the grids/elicitees along multiple dimensions. The stratification may reflect administrative issues of what grids were collected for what purpose, or demographic issues characterizing the population from whom the grids were elicited. It may be used to manage the se.lection of grids for analysis or be an integral part of the analysis itself, for example, in comparing dif.ferent demographics, strata or other facets within the population. The natural way to encode such classifications within the framework of Rep Plus is to create class metagrids whose elements are the grids within the collection being analyzed, and to enter the classi.fication schema as a set of constructs for the categorization of these grids. The RepGrids tool recog.nizes such metagrids and makes the classifications they represent available to manage the selection of grids for analysis and the stratification of the grids within the analyses. The Classes tool in RepGrid enables secondary classifications to be developed from the primary ones though logical connectives. The Class metagrids and selection panel (Figure 33) manages the creation and use of class meta-grids applicable to the collection of grids in RepGrids. Figure 33: Class metagrids panel when no class grid has been loaded 3.5.1 Creating a class metagrid If no class grid has been loaded then the only active controls are the Create button at the top right and the select All button at the lower right. Clicking on Create generates a skeleton metagrid having the IDs of the selected grids as elements (Figure 34). Figure 35 shows the simple class grid initially created to manage the Project67 data. The first construct recognizes that three of those participating come from a marketing background whereas the others primarily focus on the products being manufactured. The second distinguishes the inter.nal staff from the external consultant. In addition the category all was added to the staff construct as the disjunction of internal and external to enable all the grids from staff to be selected whilst ex.cluding computed grids such as mean or mode grids. The first construct is used primarily to manage analyses comparing subclasses of the community, the second to manage the different types of grid data. The Items pane of the grid includes the item ClassFlags whose value specifies the checkbox set.tings in Identifier panel of the Grids pane. This is used to ensure the element names in the metagrid can always be linked to the grid names in the RepGrids collection. The existence of this item is also used by RepGrids to identity the grid as a metagrid and treat it differently from the data grids. Any type of construct may be used in a classes grid and the categories defined for these con.structs are used to classify the grids in RepGrids. Often the “categories” type is most convenient but sometimes it is useful to enter a numeric value of a characteristic, such as age or years of experience, and stratify it by defining appropriate categories. 3.5.2 Loading a class metagrid A class grid can be loaded in RepGrids in the same way as a data grid, for example, by dragging it to the RepGrids window. It becomes part of the grids database but appears in the Class metagrids popup menu rather than the Grids pane (Figure 37). Several metagrids may be created, loaded and the active one selected in the popup menu. The numbers on the left of the metagrids menu show the number of grids in class metagrid out of the total in the database followed by number of those in the metagrid that are selected out of the total selected in the Grids pane. This makes it apparent whether the coverage of the class metagrid is complete for all the grids, and whether it is complete for those selected. In this example the mean grid is not included in the class grid which is indicated in the first pair of numbers, and it is one of those selected which is indicated in the second pair. All the buttons are now active: Delete removes the class grid shown in the menu from the dataset; Open opens it in RepGrid for analysis and editing; Refresh reloads it after it has been edited and saved. The bottom menu shows a class and the number of grids that fall under it. The menu shows both any compound classes and the construct/category basic classes from all the metagrids that have been loaded. The grids falling under the class shown may be selected in the Grids pane by clicking on the Select button, and all the grids may be selected by clicking on the All button. Selection dynamically updates all the RepGrids analysis panes so that, if the class grid supports the required selection, there is no need to return to the Grids pane to make a manual selection. The description of the class selected is stored and is appended to the title of the grids database to identify the class used in an analysis. 3.5.3 Analysis of a class metagrid One advantage of representing the stratification of a community in a grid is that the usual grid anal.ysis tools may be used to study the relations between the dimensions of the stratification system. If. for example, two apparently independent dimensions are highly correlated in the sample of the com.munity selected for study it may be very difficult to distinguish between them, and it is important to know this if the results of the study are not to be potentially misleading. Figure 38 shows the PrinGrid plot of the first two components of a principal components anal.ysis of the class grid used to stratify a community of property appraisers in a major study (Bellman, 2012). There are 19 constructs in the class metagrid and the Frontier estimates on the scree plot sug.gest some 9 underlying significant dimensions with 3 major ones. This indicates that the dimensions of stratification are reasonably independent but some are correlated with others and this needs to be taken account in the interpretation of the results. Histo Pane The Histo pane (Figure 39) supports analyses of collections of grids have both el.ements and constructs in common. The Histo tab is only active if Both is selected in the Grids pane. The top line of text shows the number of grids selected and the numbers of their common elements and constructs. The pane has two panels: Distributions which provides various analyses of the distribution of ratings from different grids of an element on a construct construct; Class selection which, if one or more class grids have been loaded, allows the collection of grids being analyzed to be selected. The latter duplicates the same capability on the Socio pane to avoid changing panes whilst running a sequence of analyses from the Histo pane. 4.1 Distribution panel: analysis of overall distributions The upper region of the distribution panel manages the analysis of the overall distribution of an ele.ments on a construct for all the selected grids. The top line of text shows the number of distributions under consideration and the range of their standard deviations (a full population SD rather than a sample population SD estimate—i.e. division by n rather than n-1). 4.1.1 Mean grid generation At the right, the Mean grid button provides the capability to generate a mean grid from the selected grids. It is essentially a short-cut restricted duplication of the Mode grid functionality of the Socio pane with cut off set to zero. It is provided on the Histo pane because mean grids are a very common way of generating mode grids summarizing collections with both common elements and constructs. The mean grid that is shown as the last item of the Project67 dataset (Figure 28) was generated from the grids of the 8 internal staff only. It was created by selecting the grids for the internal staff as shown at the bottom of Figure 40 where the staff item in the hierarchical menu allows the selection of internal (employees excluding the consultant), all (the grids elicited from people excluding the computed mean grid to which the staff construct is inapplicable) or external (the consultant). Clicking on the Mean grid button generates a mean grid as shown in Figure 41. The selection criterion staff is internal is shown in the title, name and note. The number of grids is also shown in the note, and their identifiers are listed in the annotation. Thus, mean grids for different communities are readily generated and identified. The full Mode grid functionality of the Socio pane remains available to investigate the sensitivity of such a concep.tual summary grid to considerations of the representativeness of the grids on which it is based. In general the effect may be expected to be low because the averaging of ratings reduces the impact of idiosyncrasies but, if the analysis of the mode/mean grid is central to the conclusions of a study it may be appropriate to check that this is so for the data analyzed. 4.1.2 Mean and standard deviation data On the second row, the Data button, depending on the check-box settings, generates textual output of the matrices of standard deviations and means for the grid ratings and a list of standard deviations and means sorted by standard deviation (Figure 42). This last makes the construct-element pairs where there is most and least consensus readily apparent. Note that the standard deviation (SD) is provided as a descriptive statistic in RepGrids to pro.duce comparable estimates of the degree of consensus in the rating of particular elements on par.ticular constructs. It is the maximum likelihood estimator (Hedges and Olkin, 1985) of the actual population SD (divide by n) appropriate to a descriptive statistic rather than Gauss/Bessel unbi.assed estimator (Kenney and Keeping, 1951) of the SD of the population sampled (divide by n-1) appropriate to t-tests assuming a normal distribution. Grid rating distributions are generally highly skewed, in part because of the limited range of the scale, and far from normal making estimates of the significance of differences based on t-tests highly misleading (Wilcox, 1998). 4.1.3 Histograms of distributions On the next line, the Histogram button generates histograms of a set of distributions selected accord.ing to the criteria specified on the right: those whose standard deviations are in the range specified sorted by standard deviation (Figure 43); or those for a particular element or construct, sorted by standard deviation if “Sort” is checked but otherwise in the same order as in the grid (Figure 44). Histograms selected by standard deviation are useful to determine what ratings of any element on any construct have the greatest and least consensus. Those for a particular element enable the degree of consensus of the ratings of that element on every construct to be investigated, and those for a particular constructs enable the degree of consensus of the ratings of every element on that construct to be investigated. The standard deviation a rough indicator of the degree of consensus is useful for filtering and sorting the results, but the primary value of the histograms is to be able to investigate the structure of the consensus. In a coherent community it will be expected that there will be a high degree of consensus on many items. If some histograms indicate that this expectation is not confirm, it may indicate a significant issue for the community appropriate for further investigation. When the histograms are produced the RepNet net representing them is dynamically linked back to the dataset that produced them and the HistoGrids script is automatically run to provide an interactive interface to the histograms allowing the grids represented by each bar to be shown, and opened if required (Figure 45). Figure 45 illustrates the interactive exploration of the histogram having the least consensus (bot.tom right of Figure 44). At the top, as the cursor is mover over the histograms it is shown as a star until, as shown in the histogram below, when it is over a histogram bar it changes to an arrow with a menu symbol to indicate that a click will activate a popup menu. The effect of clicking on each bar in turn is shown in the last four histograms. The popup menu shows the name(s) of the grid(s) contributing to the bar, and selecting a name will open the grid for more detailed investigation. Usually the names in themselves are sufficient in identifying the sources of outliers and consensual subgroups, allowing those involved to determine if the pattern is one rea.sonably expected or an interesting anomaly meriting further investigation. The HistoGrids script can be terminated by double-clicking when the menu is a star. 4.1.4 Histogram parameters panel The Histogram parameters panel (Figure 46) is used to manage the graphical display of the histograms. Figure 46: Histogram parameters panel The first checkbox on the left specifies whether the plot is titled, the next whether element and construct numbers are shown, the next two whether the mean and standard deviation are graphed (location of mean and one SD either side of it) and/or shown as numbers and, if so, to how many decimal places. The next two specify whether the ratings are shown on the horizontal scale and whether a vertical scale is plotted. The text field on the right enables the geometry of the histograms to be adjusted. It can contain up to 5 numbers separated by commas: the number of pixels for each vertical increment in the his.togram bars; their widths; horizontal space between bars; vertical space between histograms, and horizontal space at the end of each plot. If fewer than 5 values are specified the remainder are filled from the appropriate position in the default values 3, 3, 8, 4, 4. The default values are usually appropriate for studying the results but the options are useful in developing presentations to achieve clarity and simplicity for a wider audience. 4.2 Comparing distributions If class metagrids have ben used to stratify the population then it becomes possible to compare the distributions of the ratings of two sub-communities by showing them separately on a pair of his.tograms on the same plot. This also makes it possible to assess statistically the null hypothesis that both distributions are drawn from some common distribution, that is that the two sub-communities are not differentiated in the way they are rating a particular element on a particular construct. If there is a statistically significant difference between the populations it could arise for many different reasons, for example, that one sub-community is more coherent than the other in the way that it makes the distinctions underlying the constructs, or that there are major conceptual differ.ences between the sub-communities in their interpretation of a construct or element. The reason is usually perceptible in the relation between the paired histograms, whether one is more tightly clus.tered, whether both are largely clustered but one has a larger number of outliers, whether one is pre.dominantly towards one pole of the rating scale, and the other to the other, and so on. The statistical anomaly indicates a potential social or conceptual difference and the histograms suggest the nature of that difference. An appropriate measure of whether two distributions over an ordinal scale may be reasonably supposed to samples of the same distribution is the probability that values in one distribution are predominantly greater than those in the other, or two-sidedly that they are predominantly either greater or less, a statistic first developed by Wilcoxon (1945), generalized by Mann and Whitney (1947) in their “U-test”, and given a probabilistic interpretation by Birnbaum (1956). The statistic requires no assumptions about the underlying distributions of the populations being compared, and has become widely recognized as a preferred alternative to Student’s “t-test” when assumptions of normalcy are inappropriate. For a normal distribution its power its asymp.totic power is 95% (3/π) (Mood, 1954) and for many non-normal distributions it is more powerful than the t-test (Cliff, 2014). This makes it particularly well-suited to conceptual grid rating scale data comparisons where the distributions are generally skewed, discrete, differing in variance and best-interpreted as ordinal data. There is another statistic, d, applicable to the comparisons which estimates . the probability that one distribution is higher less the probability that the other is higher (Agresti, 2010). Cliff (1993) recommends this as a simply interpretable measure for reporting the effect size (Cumming, 2012; Lakens, 2013). The value of d is simply derivable from the Mann-Whitney U value and the cardi.nalities of the two distributions, and for a collection of comparisons of different distributions of the same two classes p and d are monotonically related so that both will sort the distributions in the same way. RepGrids makes both d and p available reporting them as percentages of their maximum possi.ble values with p range from 0 to 100% and d from -100% to +100% where the sign indicates which distribution has ratings generally higher than those of the other. It is generally useful to facilitate meta-analyses to report both statistics. Note that, as usual, great care needs to be taken in interpreting the significance levels reported. The values calculated are appropriate to confirmatory testing of specific hypotheses that have been advanced prior to data collection. If, however, the analyses are used in an exploratory mode (Tukey, 1977, 1980) to search for likely anomalies then any interpretation must take into account the num.ber of distributions explored, usually the number of elements times the number of constructs. If, for example, there are 10 element and 10 constructs then 100 cases will be explored. If the probability threshold is set at 5% then one would expect 5 cases to be significant by chance. If one finds 8 cases then the probability of the outcome of the exploration is that of finding 8 cases out of one hundred when one expect 5, and a simple calculation shows the probability of 8 or more to be 12.8% which is the reportable effect size (rather than 5%). 10 cases would have an effect size of 2.81% as the result of an exploratory data analysis. RepGrids reports this overall exploratory statistic also. 4.2.1 Compare two classes of distributions panel The Compare two classes of distributions panel (Figure 47) is used to manage class comparisons. 4.2.2 Comparison histograms The two top rows provide similar options to distributions pane of generating histograms either: those satisfying a criterion, in this case that the probability, p, of the distributions being samples from a common distribution is less than that specified for a one or two-side comparison; or those for a particular element or construct, sorted by p if “Sort” is checked but otherwise in the same order as in the grid. This enables either the most significant comparisons to be listed, or those for a particular item of interest. It is is often useful if the distributions appear significantly different for a particular element on a particular construct to examine all the distributions for that element and all those for that construct to see if there is general tendency or only a particular possible anomaly. The additional controls on the first line specify whether the classes and the values of p and/or d will be shown in the plot and, if so, the number of decimal places to be used. This last option is provided because if the significance is exceptionally high then the value of p may be very low and that of d close to 100 so that more decimal places may be appropriate than those specified for the standard deviation and mean in the Histogram parameters panel which, otherwise, determines the remaining features of the plot. The menus on the following two rows are used to select the classes to be compared and show a class and the number of grids falling under it. Each provides access to both the defined compound classes and the construct/category basic classes from all the metagrids that have been loaded. It is common for the second menu selection to be a class related to that in the first menu, and the Link button when checked causes the second menu to be set to the class following that in the first menu whenever the latter is changed. The second class can be separately selected if this is not the required comparison. Figure 48 left shows the 7 histograms with p ≤ 2.5 produced when the “Histograms” is clicked with the parameter settings shown. The two classes are differentiated by the colours specified in the default net, and listed on the left of each histogram together with the mean and standard deviation of each distribution. The p and d statistics are shown on the right of each histogram. The probability of finding this many histograms satisfying the specified criterion in exploring all possible histograms is reported at the bottom. The first two involve the construct stolid—fashion trend and it may be of interest to use the op.tion to examine all histograms for this construct as shown on the right where it can be seen that sig.nificant differences are not apparent for all elements. It is also apparent that in the histograms on the left the common reason for a significant differ.ence is that one class is always extremal compared to the other and all the histograms show no over.lap which leads to the d statistic being 100% in all cases (it could also be -100% if the relative posi.tions of the two distributions were reversed). At the bottom of the Figure is shown an examination of the membership of the perspective is market class using the HistoGrids script. The new CEO and the consultant had a marketing back.ground and both worked closely with the marketing director making it likely that their views were influenced by him and resulted in them forming a coherent group having different views from the remainder of the staff. This might indicate, for example, that the CEO needs to have greater consul.tation with his other senior managers, and the results of the analysis might make this apparent to all without it having the matter to be raised in discussion. This potential issue is also apparent in the socionets, and a combination of the socionets and the histograms marked up in RepNet might be used to present it in a useful fashion (Figure 49). This fig.ure was created by copying and pasting three of the histograms into the socionets output and placing two oval regions in the background of the socionets to emphasize the groupings. The nine grids Project67 dataset is small for a distributional analysis. Figure shows a compari.son from a project with 77 participants where 73 comparisons were significant at the 2.5% level and the level has been set to 0.05% in order to create a smaller figure. The data is part of the study of the sociocognitive structure of an international ballroom dance community (Gaines and Shaw, 2012) where the stratification shown reflects the dichotomous nature of the community which splits into social dancers who dance for recreation and “trained dancers” who compete, take medal tests, are professionally qualified teachers. The ballroom dance community developed a precisely defined technique and technical vocabu.lary in the 1920s (Richardson, 1946) in order to facilitate dancers trained by one teacher to dance with those trained by another, and technical terms are widely known but their precise meaning is understood only through intense training. Thus, the main feature of the histograms being compared is that the ratings of trained group cluster tightly whereas those of the untrained group are widely dispersed, but generally overlap those of the trained group since some social dancers have also stud.ied technique. The size and dichotomous nature of this stratification of the community combine to lead to re.sults whose statistical significance corresponds to absolute certainty and would not surprise anyone who knows the community, but serve to illustrate the operation of the software in large-scale stud.ies. Bellman (2012; 2016) conducted a study of Swedish property appraisers to explore possible dif.ferences in the conceptual systems of different subgroups stratified along a number of dimensions such as education and location (Figure 38). A stakeholder group developed an initial grid of ele.ments and constructs significant to the purposes of the study (Figure 51, English translation of the Swedish original) and ratings were entered individually by the 67 professional appraisers participat.ing in the study. Figure 52 shows one of the comparisons made in Bellman (2012, p.147) and analyzed in Bell.man et al. (2016, Exhibit 6) of two groups distinguished by the institutions where they received their professional education. The authors note that there has been a major attempt by the professional association to standardize the appraisal process based on a common understanding and use of well-defined and accepted criteria, and this is apparent in the histograms where there is a high degree of consensus regardless of the source of the knowledge. The overall assessment shows that there may be more differences that can be ascribed to chance, and the degree of spread and outliers in some of the distributions suggests topics where there is lack of consensus meriting more specific investigation. This is generally the desired outcome of a suc.cessful study of this nature, to increase understanding of the sociocognitive structures involved and highlight possible anomalies for further study.1 1We are grateful to Lina Bellman for permission to use her published research to illustrate the techniques described in this section— the dataset itself is confidential. Figure 52: Distributions of property appraisers ratings (Bellman, 2012) 4.2.3 Comparison data The comparison of the the distributions generates a substantial amount of data that can be accessed through the Data section of the Compare two classes of distributions panel (Figure 53). Figure 53: Data section of compare two classes of distributions panel The first line manages the output of the classes and p and d data. Matrices of p and d values may be output and/or a list of construct/element pairs sorted by p together with the values of p, d and the standard deviations and means of each class. if the Grids checkbox is set then the grid names will also be included in the list so that the source each bar in the histograms can be identified. The significance threshold for p for the list may be set higher than that for the graphic plots to allow the investigation of the effect of different settings. The third line specifies whether, for each class, the mean (µ) and standard deviation (.) will be output, and/or shown as a list sorted by ascending standard deviation (the combined data for the two classes may be output using the upper Data button). Figure 54 show the class lists, p and d matrices and sorted data for the Project67 dataset. Figure 55 show the sorted data with grid names included. This provides an alternative to use of the His.toGrids script to determine which grids contribute to which bars in the histograms. The standard deviation and mean data is similar in presentation to that for the combined classes in Figure 42 except that it is segregated by class. 5 Compare Pane Clicking on the Compare tab in the RepGrids window brings up the Compare pane (Figure 56). It comprises two sub panels, one supporting the comparison of any pair of grids from the selected grids, and the other the management of the default styles for the grids and nets created by various analyses. 5.1 Compare two grids panel The Compare two grids panel is identical in functionality to that of the RepGrid Compare dialogue. The only variation is that instead of opening a second grid to compare with that open in RepGrid one uses the two popup menus at the top to compare any pair of grid that have been selected in the Grids pane. The chosen grids and the number of items they have in common are shown in the top line. This ease of comparison of any pair of grids in the database makes RepGrids a useful tool to manage the comparison of any collection of grids whether or not they are otherwise being held in a RepGrids file. One can create a new RepGrids window in the Rep Plus Manager, drag the collection of grids to it, and use the Compare tool to investigate whatever comparisons are of interest. The first row of check boxes determine whether: the plot is titled; elements and constructs are numbered; high and low differences are shaded; notes attached to elements and constructs are shown. The second row determines whether matches will be graphed; match values will be shown; the cumulative percentage of matches above or equal to the match value will be shown; and specifies the threshold, cut off, and scale. The Threshold value determines where in the plot matches will be shown as below threshold. The Cut off value specifies the lowest match that will be plotted. The Scale value determines how much space will be allocated to the graph of matches. The panel below is only visible if the grids being compared have both common elements and common constructs. The four radio buttons select whether a Minus plot of the difference grid is required and, if so, whether the rows should be constructs or elements, or whether a Compare plot is required where the best matching constructs or elements are shown. The Split check box determines whether a Minus plot shows the difference in ratings or the actual ratings on separate lines (Compare plots always use separate lines). In the bottom row, the normal mode of comparison is that the primary grid is compared with the secondary grid, and the Reverse order check box reverses this. The Power value of the Minkowski metric used to compute matching scores is that specified at the bottom of the Grids pane. The Open button opens a copy of first grid of the comparison in RepGrid with the Compare dialogue shown, the second grid opened as specified, and the parameters set to those specified. This enables other features of RepGrid to be used such as element and construct selection if required. Otherwise, the Compare button activates the specified comparison. 5.2 Styles for grids and nets created in analysis panel The Defaults panel at the bottom of the Compare manages the selection of default grid and default net that are used in the various RepGrids analyses (Figure 57). It also enables those available to be opened and edited. Figure 57: Styles for grids and nets created in analysis panel The styles to be used in grids and nets generated in various RepGrids analyses are stored in grids and nets located in a GridsScripts directory in the network of such directories accessible to the cur.rent RepGrids file (§8.2). The Grids and Nets menus show the current default grid and net, and al.low alternative ones to be selected (Figure 58). The lowest item in the menu are the default grid and net issued with the Rep Plus software and stored in a GridsScripts directory alongside the application. There is another GridsScripts directory in the Rep Plus directory in the Documents or MyDocuments directory that is intended for gener.ally available style grids and nets developed by users, and these show in the central partition of the menu. There may also be more data specific or private GridsScripts directories in association with the RepGrids database files and these show at the top of the menus. The Open buttons allow the selected style grids and nets to be opened for editing. The selections themselves are stored in the RepGrids file and reselected when that file is opened so that once a user has made a selection it is preserved as the ongoing default for that RepGrids database. Note that a file at a higher level with the same name as one in a lower level shadows the one at a lower level so that it no longer appears in the menu. Thus, files named default in an upper level directory will effectively replace the supplied default files without those files themselves having to be deleted. 6 Content Pane Content analysis of textual material based on the lexicographical similarity, frequency and relation.ship of the words used, and the coding of those words by researchers in terms of their meanings was originally developed in literary scholarship and then extended to a wide range of studies of textual materials in many disciplines (Barcus, 1960). It has become a standard method of qualitative re.search (Neuendorf, 2002; Krippendorff, 2013), particularly with the increasing availability of com.puter tools to support the analyses (West, 2001b,a). Content analysis is applicable to grid data because the element and construct descriptors en.tered by the elicitees are well-localized discrete textual phrases that be analyzed lexicographically and coded by researchers not only through their likely linguistic meanings but also through the way they are used in the grids and the relations between them induced by the rating data. Honey (1979) pioneered the content analysis of constructs in multiple grid datasets, and Jankowicz (2004, Ch.7) has extended, applied and explained a range of content analysis methods including Honey’s indexing techniques. RepGrids also supports the content analysis of element descriptions but this is unusual and the emphasis and examples in this section will focus on the content analysis of construct de.scriptions. 6.1 The interplay between content analysis and other grid analysis methods There are a significant difference between the content analysis of textual material in general and that of the phrases describing items in conceptual grids. The short grid phrases do not provide as much contextual information as available from an embedding in a coherent textual narrative. However, grids do provide rather more explicit evidence of their usage through the ratings showing how they are used to distinguish a set of elements. As Wittgenstein (1953) argued the meaning of a word is evidenced and communicated by its use in language games rather than by their lexical structure or dictionary definition, and conceptual grid elicitation enables such usage to be made explicit in the context of the relevant domain being investigated. The analysis of multiple grid analysis methods in terms of construct usage and the terminology applied (Shaw and Gaines, 1989) generates a crossplot in terms of two constructs: same distinction— different distinction and same terminology—different terminology (Figure 59). Content analysis meth.ods focus on the two left quadrants where different people are making the same distinction, and in particular, on the human resolution of the issues in the lower left quadrant where people are apply.ing differing terms to what may be the same distinction—correspondence of usage but not of termi.nology. A problem arises because it is also possible that their is conflict of usage in that the same terms are being applied to different distinctions (top left quadrant), and the availably of the rating data may be used to make this apparent. If two grids have two lexically identical, or lexically very similar, constructs, but use them differently in categorizing the elements it suggests that the lexical informa.tion is misleading. In addition, if two constructs are used similarly but the lexical descriptions seem to indicate that different distinctions are being made it suggests that the similarity indicates a corre.lation in the domain that the set of elements is inadequate to distinguish rather a correspondence. Thus, content analysis of grids can make use of two distinct sources of information, construct matches indicating the same or similar usage, and lexical similarity/interpretation indicating the same or similar communicative intention. The RepGrid Contents pane makes both sources of in.formation available in a hierarchical tabular format that supports grouping of items based on lexical information taking into account matches based on usage. The matches between items in the grid are dynamically computed and always available, and are categorized as low, medium of high according to Honey’s criteria to support his method if a suppled construct has been used. If the grid dataset has common elements (or constructs) then the construct (or element) match data from the SOCIO analyses is made available. If one or more class metagrids are part of the dataset then they may be used to track how many items in each group are from a particular class. 6.2 Populating the content pane The use of the content analysis tools will be illustrated using a dataset from an early study of the po.tential application of grid elicitation and analysis to the development of knowledge-based systems (?). Carlson’s (1983) BIAIT method of business process analysis uses seven constructs to character.ize the nature of a business to facilitate the development of appropriate data collection and account.ing practices. Such analyses continue to be used in developing computerized accounting systems today (Leshob et al., 2015), and the 1982 study investigated whether the BIAIT model would natu.rally emerge from the construing of those with some degree of experience of business and accounting practices. A pilot study showed that six of the BIAIT constructs appeared in a grid elicited from and ex.perienced businessman construing a range of different types of business. It raised the question of whether elicitation should focus on individual experts or would be more robust if a consensus was developed from a group with varying experience—an early interest in what has become to be known as crowdsourcing (Howe, 2008). Grids were elicited from sixteen individuals having a wide range of levels of business and accountancy expertise construing an initial set of ten elements. The only analysis tools available in the early 1980s were those based on Shaw’s (1979; 1980) SOCIOGRIDS that offered early versions of the Sociogrids and Mode grid analyses provided in the “Socio” pane. It was possible to generate a mode grid automatically from the construct matches and compare this with a BIAIT grid that used the seven BIAIT constructs to construe the elements, and determine that each of the BIAIT constructs was well-matched in the mode grid. However, the same construct was used to match more than one BIAIT construct suggesting that the element set might be too small, allowing naturally associated business processes to lead to correlated constructs. When the textual labels of the poles of the 186 constructs elicited were examined all of the BIAIT constructs were found showing that crowdsourcing was promising but the analysis at that time was informal. The content tool in RepGrids support the humanly-managed process of identifying lexical rela.tions, providing the match data used in the Socio analyses to help ensure that the lexical similarities also correspond to conceptual similarities. Figure 60 show the grids pane for the BIAIT study dataset which also has a class metagrid repre.senting the classification of the business expertise of those participating. Figure 60: BIAIT study dataset The initial content pane is empty except for a heading showing the number of grids, total num.ber of constructs and common elements and a Populate button. When the Populate button is clicked a table is generated with columns showing the grid ID and the name, poles and note of each construct (Figure 62). The construct “name” field is included because it is some used as part of the identification of the poles, and the construct “note” field because it is sometimes use to explain a construct’s meaning in greater detail which may be relevant to a construct analysis. The table constitutes the content analysis database and, while it originates in the grids selected in the Grids pane, it is recorded separately in the RepGrids file so that once it is created other analy.ses may be performed without interfering with the content analysis. This enables the analysis to be developed over time, saved in the file, and reopened in the same state for continuation as required. A content analysis can involve much effort and is difficult to reconstruct if it is lost so the system is asprotective as possible and it is good practice to make frequent dated backups of the RepGrids file. If, for example, some grids used in the content analysis were deleted from the Grids pane, when the file is saved the user will be warned about the deletion and asked whether those grids should be reinstated to support the content analysis. The “Discard” button clears the content analysis—as it is not undoable the user has to confirm this is the intent.The Select button selects in the Grids pane those grids used in the content analysis so that they may be analyzed in other tools. The Reverse button appears if the items being analyzed are constructs. It reverses those con.structs that are selected in the Content pane to enable them to be aligned with similar constructs before they are grouped. 6.2.1 Controls for hiding columns and reversing constructs, and popup menu The check boxes at the bottom allow the Honey/Jankowicz Index (§6.5.1), Name, Note and group count #% (§6.3) columns to be opened or closed as required. Other columns and associated check-boxes appear for Match and Mode if a Socio analysis is run (§6.5.2). Column widths may be changed by dragging the bars in the headers. The state of the checkboxes and the width of the columns are saved in the RepGrids file. The “Discard” button clears the content analysis—as it is not undoable the user has to confirm this is the intent. The Select button selects in the Grids pane those grids used in the content analysis so that they may be analyzed in other tools. The Reverse button reverses the constructs that are selected in the Content pane to enable them to be aligned with similar constructs before they are grouped. 6.2.2 Popup menu commands Right-clicking or CTL-clicking in any row displays a popup menu (without changing which rows are selected) that provides a range of options that vary according to the state of the analysis. Figure 63 shows the options available when the Content pane is initially populated with constructs. The Copy cell command copies the text in the cell that was clicked into the clipboard. It is useful in setting up search phrases for textual searches (§6.6) the highlight items with similar terms to those forming a group. It is more specific that the Copy command in the File menu that copies selected rows into the clipboard in the text export format (as if Selected and Visible were specified). The Reverse this row command reverses the construct in the row that has been clicked. It is use.ful when one wishes to reverse a construct without disturbing already selected constructs, The Re.verse selected rows command provides the same function as the The Reverse button. 6.3 Grouping similar items The content analysis process consists of selecting items that are construed as being similar (by what.ever criteria are being applied) and grouping them into a single item that is representative of all those grouped. Figure 64 shows three constructs selected (by clicking on each with the command key held down to achieve discontinuous selection) that all make a similar conceptual distinction be.tween a product being rented or being sold outright, even if the terminology is different. The #% column has been opened to show information about the number of items in groups. Clicking on the Group button creates a new group that includes those selected (Figure 65). The number of items, and the percentage of all the items, in the group are shown in the #% column on the right. The group is identified as such in the ID column but otherwise appears as an item of the type grouped, in this case a construct. It also behaves as such and may be sorted or dragged to another lo.cation just like any other item. It may also be made a member of another group allowing the creation of hierarchical structures of any depth. Thus the items in the table, and in groups, can include groups as well as constructs (or elements). The initial terms in the name and pole fields are copied from the first construct grouped to min.imize unnecessary typing, but the fields together with the name and note field may be freely edited. The first construct group can itself be specified by dragging it to be at the top of the group before grouping to take advantage of this feature. If the annotation is very long the note field may be opened in a text editing dialogue by double clicking in the ID cell. The ID field has an arrowhead symbol pointing horizontally to indicate that the group is closed and its members are no longer visible. Clicking in the arrow rotates the arrowhead to point down and opens the group to show its members (Figure 66). Grouping can be undone and if a discontinuous selection has been grouped then Undo will re.store the items in the group to their original locations and delete the group itself. The Ungroup but.ton simply flattens a group leaving the items grouped located where the group had been and deleting the group itself. Ungrouping can also be undone, effectively restoring the original group. Note that when a group is selected all its members are automatically also selected. However, items within a group may be selected individually or together with other items just as if they were not within the group (Figure 67). Items within a group may be dragged out of it or to a different location in the group, and items may be dragged into it, making it possible to edit and extend groups once created. 6.3.1 Grouping through the popup menu Grouping selected items through the Group button is an effective way to start a group and, if all the groups are dragged to one location such as the top of the table, dragging items between groups is an effective way of refining groupings. However, when the content analysis involves a large collection of items and one wishes to move an item remote from the groups to a particular group, it may be tedious to have to drag it through the table and it would be better to have a local command that can move it directly to the group. It may also be problematic to recollect what groups have been created if they are not visible. Once one or more groups are defined the popup menu offers additional options: to append the row clicked to a specified group (without changing the current selections); to append all selected items to a specified group (Figure 68). The menu lists the groups already defined and the two options provide the flexibility to manage various strategies for grouping. For example, if one is selecting a number of items for grouping and notices an isolated item that belongs in another group, one may group that item without disturbing the existing selections. 6.4 Exporting content analysis data The content analysis tool itself only groups the grid items making no changes in them and not con.solidating in them in any way other than grouping them. The normal presentation of the resulting structures is to display the groups in full (e.g. Jankowicz, 2004, Table 7.9, pp.178-179) or summary form (e.g. Jankowicz, 2004, Table 7.1, p.153). The export function supports copying selected parts of the content analysis data in a TAB-separated format in the clipboard or a file that may be pasted in, or opened by, document processors and spreadsheets to create such presentations. If the grids have common items then it is also possible to export the content analysis data as a mode grid representing a consensual synthesis of the community. This goes beyond that of §3.2 by allowing the folding of items (§3.3.2) based not only on lexical identity but also on lexical content such as similarity and common meaning. The ratings of an item are copied directly and of a group are the means of those of its members. Clicking on the Export button brings up the dialogue shown in Figure 69. The Item selection panel on the left specifies what items will be exported: Selected Export only selected items; Visible Export only visible items—excludes the contents of groups unless they are open; Groups only Export groups only. The text at the top shows the number of items that will be exported and changes according to the eight selection combinations that are possible. The top six items were selected, one of which os a group having three members, and two other groups have been created. The number of items ranges from 1 for selected groups only, through 3 for groups only, 6 for selected visible, 9 for selected (in.cludes members of closed groups), through to 169 as shown for all items without restriction. The Spreadsheet panel on the top right specifies that the items will be exported in a TAB-separated format suited to spreadsheets and document processors, either as a file or copied to the clipboard. The Indent field supports hierarchical structures by indenting the members of a group if they are exported (with multiple levels of indents if groups are included in groups). Figure 70 shows the selected items exported to the clipboard and pasted into a spreadsheet. If visible items only had been exported then the three group members would not appear. The columns exported are those visible as controlled by the check boxes that open and close the columns. Thus, through the Item selection panel and the column check boxes the user has a high de.gree of control over what parts of the content analysis are exported. The Grid panel on the bottom right specifies that the items will be exported as a mode grid (Fig.ure 71). A group will be exported as a construct having the name and poles specified with ratings for any common elements being the mean of those of the members having the number of decimal places specified, and a weight corresponding to the number of constructs included. If the number of deci.mal places specified is zero then the construct type will be Ratings, otherwise Numbers. If there are no common elements the grid will have no elements. Usually only the groups created in the content analysis will be exported to a grid, possibly with some of the ungrouped items, but the user has the flexibility to specify whatever might be of interest. 6.5 Numerical measures supporting content analysis As discussed in §6.1, the content analysis of grid data can be guided not only by the textual material but also by numeric measures derived from the ratings data. Items may be grouped based on some combination of common meaning and common usage. Honey (1979) developed a technique to support content analysis of grids that involves seeding all the grids being elicited with one or more given, or supplied, constructs that represent the purpose of the study. Matches to these are used to identify constructs in each grid that are significant to a study, and to align them so that their similarly is more apparent. Jankowicz further developed and exemplified this technique, and presented it in tutorial form (Jankowicz, 2004). If the grids being analyzed have common elements (or constructs) then Shaw’s (1980) mode score can be computed (§3.2). This is the mean across grids of the highest match of an item to all items in every other grid, and measures the degree of consensuality of the item. In addition the ma.trix of matches between all items can be made available to check the degree of common usage in a group. The two techniques provide different information relevant to a content analysis and may sen.sibly be combined to provide maximal support from analysis of the grid ratings to guide a content analysis based on the conceptual relationships evident in the textual material. 6.5.1 Honey/Jankowicz indices Honey’s technique requires the specification one or more given constructs that are created to corre.spond to the purpose of the study, for example in a study of mapping techniques one might use least effective technique—most effective technique of in a study of fraud one might use least serious fraud— most serious fraud. A given construct in each grid is matched against the other constructs in the grid to provide a measure of how relevant they are to the purpose of the study, and to reverse constructs if necessary so that their poles align with the given construct. Figure 72 shows Content pane from the study of a group studying mapping techniques (Shaw and Gaines, 1989) where three constructs were supplied that were central to the aims of the study, Not very important—Very important, Not very effective—Very effective, Not widely used—Widely used. The Index check box on the left has been set to show a column where the Honey/Jankowicz in.dices may be displayed. If one double-clicks in a row in the Index column the values of the indices are displayed showing the matches of all constructs in the grid to the construct in that row together with Honey’s H, I, L (high, intermediate, low) triage of the matches based on their rank order (Fig.ure 73). Note that eight of the constructs in Peter’s grid have been automatically reversed in the indexing process to align them with construct selected for indexing Not very effective—Very effective. Note also that the constructs in Mary’s grid have also been indexed. This is because there is a lexically identical construct in her grid and the indexing process automatically propagates to all the grids on the assumption they include the same given construct. If this propagation is not appropriate then double-clicking with the shift key down will index only one grid. The numbers after Index checkbox show that 2 out of 3 grids have been indexed. If we scroll down we can see that Charlie’s grid was not indexed because he entered the given construct as not so effective technique—very effective technique (Figure 73). Double-clicking in the Index column for that construct completes the indexing process. Content analysis through grouping and the export of the resulting structures proceeds as already described except that exporting to a grid is no longer useful if there are no common elements. The analysis procedures are well-documented in the literature (Honey, 1979; Jankowicz, 2004), and the RepGrids content analysis tool supports them by carrying out the index calculations, providing fa.cilities to help manage the process, recording the results, and exporting them in a form suitable for preparing their presentation. 6.5.2 Socio match and mode values In the BIAIT Study the grids have common elements and a Socio button appears in the lower panel (Figure 61) which will run a Socio analysis on the grids selected for the content analysis. This analy.sis is private to the content analysis and will automatically run again when a saved file is reopened. Figure 75 shows the Content pane after a Socio analysis. Two new columns have been generated: Match which can be used to show the matches of all constructs to any chosen construct; Mode show.ing the Socio mode grid comparison matches. The Socio button has been replaced by check boxes controlling the visibility of the two new columns. The Match column is initially empty but double-clicking in it for a certain construct populates it as shown with the matches to that construct of all the other constructs. The construct selected is in.dicated by a row of four bullets. A match value corresponding to the best match involving reversing one of the constructs has a bullet in front of it. The construct itself may be reversed by selecting it and clicking on the Reverse button and the bullet will then disappear. The matches are dynamic and the construct double-clicked for matching can be reselected as required. The Mode column is initially unsorted but clicking on the header sorts it as shown with the con.structs in the order as they would be selected for incorporation in a mode grid. This enables the gen.eration of a mode grid to be managed more flexibly than in the Socio pane, and the mode match val.ues to be used to guide a content analysis that commences with the most consensual constructs. The top eight constructs seem all to be related to the distinction rent—purchase and we may consider grouping them. The fourth one from HJ needs to be reversed before grouping. The third one from RKK addresses an aspect of this distinction that renting leads to a continuing income and purchasing to an immediate one-off profit. If the content analysis is to be presented as clusters of associated conceptual distinctions then this enriches the cluster. If the analysis is to be exported to a grid and presented through grid analyses then it may be appropriate to leave that construct out of the main cluster so that the conceptual correspondence is apparent through the Focus clustering or PrinGrid map. Similar consideration apply to for PEK’s Customer looks after—We look after, FEP’s Return after use—Ownership transfers, EM’s Service—Sales and RKK’s Services—Sale of goods. In addition these last two seem be conceptually related and we can consider grouping them and, possibly, including that group in the rent—purchase purchase group. Figure 76 shows such a hierarchical grouping including appropriate reversals to align all the con.structs. The main group for rent—purchase has a subgroup of associated notions making correspond.ing distinctions that are conceptually different but functionally related to rent—purchase. This in turn has a subgroup for the various forms of the service—sales distinction. The export capabilities allow many possibilities, such as the top-level group, the three groups, or the entire structure to be output as a basis for presenting the results. Figure 77 shows the entire structure exported to a spreadsheet. The use of indentation to represent the hierarchy is apparent. The structure suggests a presentation where the main distinction is between renting and purchasing and that this has correlated aspects of long term income versus immediate profit, allowing for the return and maintenance of rental items, and the notion of providing a service. Similarly, there are several relevant possibilities when exporting the group to a grid. Figure 78 shows the entire contents of the group exported as a grid. Figure 79 shows the top level group exported as a grid with a single construct having the mean ratings of the eleven constructs in the group. Figure 80 shows the three groups exported as a grid. The ratings of the first construct are the mean of all eleven constructs and include those of the other two groups, and, similarly, the ratings of the second are the mean of five constructs including those in the third group. Thus, the support of hierarchical structures together with the ease of modifying them and the various export options makes it possible to export the data from the content analysis in a wide vari.ety of forms that may be chosen to address the needs of any particular study. 6.5.3 Aligning through the popup menu In the content analysis of a collection of constructs it is important to make sure the poles of the con.structs in a group are aligned, particularly if the groups are to be exported to a grid. This needs to be checked on an individual basis and can be done on an individual basis. However, the ratings provide a basis for alignment that can be used to automate the alignment process in large part. If the Honey/Jankowicz techniques have been used then setting the given construct in the Index column automatically aligns all the other constructs in the same grid and this will usually lead to conceptual alignment when constructs from different grids are grouped. A similar approach to achieving alignment may be taken when a Socio analysis has been ap.plied and the Match and Mode values are available. if one clicks on the header of the Mode column to bring the most consensual mode construct to the top, and then clicks in the Match column for that construct to show all the matches to that construct, then the constructs that are not aligned to that construct are apparent (Figure 82). If Socio has been run and one right-clicks or CTL-clicks in a row, additional options appear in the popup menu: to align all constructs to that in the row; to align any selected constructs to that in the row (Figure 83). Selecting the first option aligns all the unaligned constructs and leaves those reversed selected to show which ones were changed (Figure 84). Aligning all the constructs to the most consensual one often leads to all similar constructs be.ing aligned, but will not necessarily do so. If when grouping constructs one notes that many are not aligning then the alignment options may be used to align all ungrouped or selected constructs to a representative construct for the group. Alignment is only applied to visible constructs and not to those in closed groups or to the groups themselves making it easy to manage the process even with.out selection. 6.6 Textual search Content analysis involves identifying conceptually related items and grouping them, and it can be a time-consuming and tedious process. Numerical measures derived from the grid data can help iden.tify significant items and commonalities of construing that support the process but there remains an essential element of lexical interpretation which can be supported by text search facilities. When the content pane has been populated a Find command becomes available in the Edit menu and can be activated from the menu or by keying command-F. This brings up a search dialogue (Figure 85). Any number of words or phrases may be entered, one on each line. Each will be matched against the item identification fields (name, note and poles) that are visible, and the items matching any of the search phrases will be selected (Figure 86), including some unintended (different includes rent). The Content pane comes to the front to show the results of a search. The search dialogue remains visible because one outcome of a search can be to amend the search terms. It can be hidden by click.ing on the red dot at the top left. It is also stored in the RepGrids file. If it is activated again the the search terms entered will still be present and the state of the check boxes will be unchanged. Click.ing on the Clear button clear the search phrases in preparation for a new search. The three checkboxes at the bottom of the search dialogue control the search process: Grep Interpret the search phrase as a pattern-matching regular expression (Fitzgerald, 2012) such as (\b)rent; Not groups Do not include groups in the search—they are usually not intended to be further grouped; Selected Only search selected items—note that any prior selection may be changed as an out.come of the search. The Grep option allows complex pattern-matching search phrases to be defined to make the search more specific. Since an alphanumeric string is itself a regular expression, normal search phrases including only alphanumerics and spaces may be freely mixed in the list with those having a more complex interpretation. The Grep option is most often useful to ensure that a search term is not embedded. For example, rent alone will match rental or rented as intended but it is common suffix and will also match differ.ent, apparent, and so on. The regular expression (\b)rent will only match text that begins with rent. The \b specifies the boundary of a word. The surrounding parentheses are unnecessary but good practice to separate the rather opaque syntax from the rest of the text. If \b is prefixed to the search phrase rent then the unintended hits on different and indifferent no longer appear (Figure 87). The results may be scrolled down to check that all should be grouped, any that are inappropri.ate may be deselected (command-click), and the popup menu may be used to append the selected constructs to the appropriate group. 6.7 Classifying the groupings If the population from whom the grids have been elicited has been stratified into classes then it is often of interest to know how many grids from each class contributed to a group of items. If one or more class grids representing the stratification are part of the dataset then a menu is shown at the bottom of the content pane allowing a class to be selected together with buttons allowing column for that class to be added to, or deleted from, the analysis. For example, those from whom the grids were elicited in the study of accounting eliciting of busi.ness process expertise (§6.2) were stratified in terms of their business expertise and this was repre.sented in a class metagrid added to the dataset (Figure 88). If one selects each class and clicks on Add Class then three columns are added which show the number and percentage of the grids in each class that are members of the group (Figure 89). Note that the percentage in the #% column is that of the total number of items in the Content pane, and that in the class columns is that of the total number of items in the specified class. The additional data is included when the content analysis is exported to a spreadsheet (Figure 90). Scripts Pane Clicking on the Scripts tab in the RepGrids window brings up the Scripts pane (Figure 91). The Scripts tab at the top right has been replaced by a scripts menu allowing the selection of a script from those available in the network of GridsScripts directories in the network of such directories accessi.ble to the current RepGrids file (§8.2). Clicking in the menu symbol on the right of the scripts menu brings up a menu enabling a script to selected from those available. Clicking on the scripts menu when on has been selected runs the script. The menu is shown open with five scripts available: Complexity Show cognitive complexity measures for the selected grids; Get Socio Data Show the data used in a Socio analysis—grids, matches, mode scores, sorted mode scores; Grid Data Show the normalized ratings for each selected grid for common elements on com.mon constructs; Grid Overviews List the elements and constructs in the selected grids; Test Editing Grids Exemplifies how to open each of the selected grids, edit it as specified and save it—can be run safely and used to test code accessing the grid data as the command to save the grid is commented out. The scripts are intended to provide examples of how RepScript programs may be used extend Rep-Grids by accessing and processing its data. There are two text panels available in the window whose size visibility and content are under script control, the upper one intended for entering queries, and the lower one for the script-generated responses. The labels, “Query,” “Response” and “Comment” are also under script control and gener.ally change according to the script. At the top left is a button to run scripts with a popup menu on its right that allows the script to be run to be selected. The scripts are written in RepScript which is documented in the RepScript manual, including the special commands for RepGrids. Scripts for use in RepGrids are stored in a GridsScripts direc.tory (§8.2). RepGrids looks for GridsScripts directories, in order of increasing precedence, in the: application directory; the Rep Plus directory in the Documents or My Documents directories; any GridsScripts directory in the directory from which a set of files have been added, or in directories containing that directory. The Rep Plus directory is intended for global scripts developed by the user, and the directories associated with particular collections of files for scripts local to those files. When a script is run the stream named q is set to send its output to the query field, and that name r to the response field. In addition the default output stream with a blank name is also initially set to send its output to the response field. This make it easy to write scripts that can send their pri.mary output either to the response field or to some other text window. 7.1 Complexity script This script demonstrates how to obtain a principal components analysis of each selected grid and use it to compute two complexity measures, the percentage variance in the first component, and the esti.mated number of components. The latter is available for individual grids in RepGrid’s PrinGrid and Synopsis scree plots, but it is useful to be able to view it for a collection of grids in RepGrids (Figure 93). The script is structured as a set of subroutines followed by the main program, but the order is irrelevant as the script is fully compiled before it is run. The main work is done by the routine Write-Grids which gets a tab-separated list of the numbers of the selected grids and then iterates through them. The command SocioGrid(n) makes the specified grid active so that the gGet and gSet com.mands may be used to access its content. // Demonstration script that provides some complexity measures for the selected grid // PVAFF is value of first component , Components is Frontier 's estimate of number of significant components // The output is sorted with the highest number of components first Class DoublePair dim a As Double dim b As Double Sub Constructor(ana As Double, anb As Double) a= ana b= anb End Sub End Class Function Eigen() As Double() dim M( -1),N( -1,-1) As Double return gGetEigen(false,false,0.0,M,N,N) // no weightings and cut off zero End Function // Frontier 's expected values of eigenValues Function EVDistrib(bnd As Integer) As Double() dim i,j As Integer, n As Integer =bnd+1, x,tot,d() As Double redim d(bnd) for i=1 to n x=0.0 for j=i to n x=x+1.0/j next d(i -1) =x tot =tot+x next for i=0 to bnd d(i)=d(i)*100.0/tot next return d End Function // Where do Frontier 's expected values cross actual eigenValues Function EVCross(EV() As Double, DI() As Double) As DoublePair() dim a,y1,y2,y3,y4 As Double, DP() As DoublePair, lower As Boolean, i,k As Integer, bnd As Integer =EV.UBound for i= bnd downto 0 if lower and EV(i)<DI(i) then lower =not lower elseif not lower and EV(i)>=DI(i) then if i= bnd then 77 DP().Append new DoublePair(1.0+i,EV(bnd)) // last component larger --no intersection else y1 =EV(i) y2 =EV(i+1) y3 =DI(i) y4 =DI(i+1) a =( y1 -y3)/(y1 -y2 -y3+y4 ) DP().Append new DoublePair(1.0+i+a,y1*(1 -a)+y2*a) end if lower =not lower end if next return DP End Function Sub WriteGridsComplexity() dim n As Variant, i As Integer, param As String =SocioGet("Settings"), id As Integer =sGetI(param ,6) // IDflags dim sel() As Integer =SocioGetAI("Select"), bnd As Integer =sel.UBound // get list of selected grid numbers dim k() As Integer, PV(),CP() As Double, GR() As String redim k(bnd) redim GR(bnd) redim PV(bnd) redim CP(bnd) for i=0 to bnd n= sel(i) // get the number of a selected grid SocioSet("Grid",n) // make the grid active (data available through gGet functions) dim V() As Double =Eigen() dim DP() As DoublePair =EVCross(V,EVDistrib(V.UBound)) k(i)=i GR(i)= gGet("Identifier",str(id)) PV(i)=V(0) CP(i)= DP(DP.UBound).a next CP.Sortwith(GR,PV) writeln TAB+"Grid"+TAB+"PVAFF"+TAB+"Components" for i= bnd downto 0 writeln sFormat(bnd -i+1,"###")+":"+TAB+GR(i)+TAB+sFormat(PV(i),"##.00")+TAB+sFormat(CP(i) ,"##.0") next wflushln End Sub Sub Main() SocioSet("Configure","R") // configure for responses only SocioSet("Field","R","Complexity Measures for Selected Grids") // set the heading of the response field WriteGridsComplexity end sub // main program Main 7.2 Get Socio Data script This script demonstrates how to run a Socio analysis of the selected grids and display the sociogrids and mode grid data (Figure 94) as can be done in Socio itself (Figure 20). The script can be modified 78 to extend the processing of the Socio analysis data and.or export it in any desired form for use in other programs // Demonstration script accessing Socio analysis // Updated 29 -Sep -2017 Sub Title(s As String) write s+EOL,"Arial",12,"B",&c write EOL,2,"" End Sub Function GetGridItem(g As Integer, it As Variant, GN() As Integer, ID() As String, item As String ) As String dim s As String SocioSet("Grid",str(GN(g))) if item ="E" then s= gGet("C",it) else s= gGet("E",it) return s+" ("+ID(g)+")" End Function Sub WriteGrids(GN() As Integer, ID() As String) dim i As Integer, bnd As Integer =GN.UBound for i=0 to bnd writeln sFormat(i+1,"##0")+":"+sFormat(GN(i),"##0")+" "+ID(i) next writeln End Sub Sub WriteMatrixD(m(,) As Double) Dim ID( -1) As String WriteMatrixD(m,ID) // get around bug when passing nil End Sub Sub WriteMatrixD(m(,) As Double, ID() As String) // if ID =nil then means or sd in grid format, otherwise grids specified in ID dim noid As Boolean =UBound(ID,1) =-1 dim i,r,c As Integer, rbnd As Integer =UBound(m,1), cbnd As Integer =UBound(m,2) 79 dim n As Integer =(cbnd+1)*wFormat("") write " " for c=0 to cbnd writeI(c+1) next writeln write " ———|" for i=1 to n write —"" next writeln for r=0 to rbnd write sFormat(r+1,"##0")+" |" for c=0 to cbnd writeD(m(r,c)) next if noid then writeln " "+gGet("C",str(r)) else writeln " "+ID(r) next write(" ") for c=0 to cbnd writeS("|") next writeln for c= cbnd downto 0 write(" ") for i=c -1 downto 0 writeS("|") next writeS("", -1) if noid then writeln gGet("E",str(c)) else writeln ID(c) next writeln End Sub Sub WriteLinks(a(,) As Integer, m(,) As Double, ID() As String, link As String) dim i,r,c As Integer, bnd As Integer =UBound(a,1) for i= bnd downto 0 r=a(i,0) c=a(i,1) writeln sFormat(bnd -i+1,"##0")+":"+sFormat(m(r,c),"###0.00")+" "+ID(r)+link+ID(c) next writeln End Sub Sub WriteModeSort(a(,) As Integer, m() As Double, GN() As Integer, ID() As String, item As String ) dim i,g,k As Integer, bnd As Integer =UBound(a,1) for i= bnd downto 0 g=a(i,0) k=a(i,1) writeln sFormat(i+1,"##0")+":"+sFormat(m(i),"###0.00")+" "+GetGridItem(g,k,GN,ID,item) next writeln End Sub Sub WriteSDSort(a(,) As Integer, av(,) As Double, sd(,) As Double) dim i As Integer, c,e As Variant, bnd As Integer =UBound(a,1) writeln " SD Mean" for i=0 to bnd c=a(i,0) e=a(i,1) writeln sFormat(i+1,"###0")+":"+sFormat(sd(c,e),"##0.00")+sFormat(av(c,e),"##0.00")+" "+gGet ("C",c)+": "+gGet("E",e) next writeln 80 End Sub Sub Main() SocioSet("Configure","R") // configure for responses only SocioSet("Field","R","Selected Grids") // set heading of response field Call wFormat(" -##0.00") dim notrun As Boolean, link,tit As String, par As String =SocioGet("Socio","") // get socio analysis status // examples of how to change parameters before running Socio // hSet(0,"DP") // hSet("New Title","Title") // hSet(1,"ID") // hSet(2,"Power") // hSet("E","State") // SocioSet("Socio") // par ="" // ensure recomputation if par ="" then // run Socio if it has not run SocioSet("Field","R","Socio Analysis running") par =SocioGet("Socio") // run Socio end if dim ng As String =hGet("NG"), ne As String =hGet("NE"), nc As String =hGet("NC") select case par case "" // Socio not run notrun =true case "E" // same elements tit =ng+" grids with "+ne+" elements in common" link =" ——> " case "C" // same constructs tit =ng+" grids with "+nc+" constructs in common" link =" ——> " case "X" // both tit =ng+" grids with "+ne+" elements and "+nc+" constructs in common" link =" —— " end select if notrun then SocioSet("Field","R","Socio Analysis has not been run yet") else SocioSet("Field","R","Socio Analysis of "+ng+" Selected Grids") // grids analyzed dim GN() As Integer =SocioGetAI("Select"), ID() As String =SocioGetA("ID") Title "Grids Analyzed: "+tit WriteGrids(GN,ID) // socionets matches dim matches( -1, -1) As Double =SocioGetA2D("Socio") Title "Grid Matches for "+tit WriteMatrixD(matches ,ID) // socionets matches sorted Title "Sorted Grid Matches for "+tit WriteLinks(SocioGetA2I("Socio"),matches ,ID,link) // mode items or means select case par case "E" // same elements --mode Title "Sorted mode constructs based on "+tit WriteModeSort ( SocioGetA2I (" Mode ") , SocioGetAD (" Mode ") ,GN ,ID ,par ) case "C" // same constructs --mode Title "Sorted mode elements based on "+tit WriteModeSort ( SocioGetA2I (" Mode ") , SocioGetAD (" Mode ") ,GN ,ID ,par ) case "X" // both --mean/SD 81 dim av( -1, -1) As Double =SocioGetA2D("Means"), sd( -1, -1) As Double =SocioGetA2D("SD") SocioSet("Means","0") // set up mean grid in order to use E and C names Title "Mean ratings based on "+tit WriteMatrixD(av) Title "Standard deviations based on "+tit WriteMatrixD(sd) Title "Standard deviation and mean sorted by standard deviation based on "+tit WriteSDSort(SocioGetA2I("SDSort"),av,sd) end select end if wflushln end sub // main program Main 7.3 Grid Data script This script demonstrates how to access a 3D matrix of normalized grid values for a dataset of grids having elements and constructs in common, The rating values are normalized to be in the range -1.0 to +1.0 (Figure 95). // normalized grid data for grids with both common elements and common constructs Sub WriteMatrixD(m(,,) As Double, k As integer) dim i,r,c As Integer, rbnd As Integer =UBound(m,2), cbnd As Integer =UBound(m,3) dim n As Integer =(cbnd+1)*wFormat("") write " " for c=0 to cbnd writeI(c+1) next writeln 82 write " ———|" for i=1 to n write —"" next writeln for r=0 to rbnd write sFormat(r+1,"##0")+" |" for c=0 to cbnd writeD(m(k,r,c)) next writeln " "+gGet("C",str(r)) next write(" ") for c=0 to cbnd writeS("|") next writeln for c= cbnd downto 0 write(" ") for i=c -1 downto 0 writeS("|") next writeS("", -1) writeln gGet("E",str(c)) next writeln End Sub Sub Main() SocioSet("Configure","R") // configure for responses only SocioSet("Field","R","Grid Data") // set heading of response field call wFormat(" -##0.00") dim m( -1, -1, -1) As Double =SocioGetA3D("Data") dim i As integer, bnd As integer =UBound(m,1), sel() As Integer =SocioGetAI("Select") for i=0 to bnd Writeln "Grid "+sGet(SocioGet("Grid",str(sel(i))),1,2)+EOL WriteMatrixD(m,i) next wflushln end sub // main program Main 7.4 Grid Overviews script This script demonstrates how the full content of the grids in a RepGrids database can be accessed as part of the open architecture capabilities of Rep Plus. This enables users to add their own application-specific multiple grid analyses; indeed it is possible to perform all the RepGrids analyses including the graphic output within the scripting language. // Demonstration script that provides lists of the elements and constructs of selected grids Sub WriteElements() dim j As Variant, ne As Integer =gGetI("NE") // number of elements writeln " Elements: "+gGet("Es") // plural for element for j=0 to ne -1 writeln sFormat(j+1,"####0")+": "+gGet("E",j) // element name next wflushln End Sub 83 Sub WriteConstructs() dim i As Variant, nc As Integer =gGetI("NC") // number of constructs writeln " Constructs: "+gGet("Cs") // plural for construct for i=0 to nc -1 writeln sFormat(i+1,"####0")+": "+gGet("C",i) // construct ID next wflushln End Sub Sub WriteGrids() dim n As Variant, i As Integer, sel() As Integer =SocioGetAI("Select"), bnd As Integer =sel. UBound // get list of selected grid numbers for i=0 to bnd n= sel(i) // get the number of a selected grid SocioSet("Grid",n) // make the grid active (data available through gGet functions) writeln n+": "+SGet(gGet("File"),".",1)+" "+gGet("Identifier")+" "+gGet("Date")+" "+gGet(" Time") // get the grid file name, identifier, date and time writeln WriteElements WriteConstructs writeln ————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————"" next wflushln End Sub Sub Main() SocioSet("Configure","R") // configure for responses only SocioSet("Field","R","Synopsis of Selected Grids") // set the heading of the response field WriteGrids end sub // main program Main 7.5 Bulk Editing Grids This script demonstrates how bulk edits may be effected on all selected grids in a RepGrids dataset. A typical usage is to replace element and construct pole names in one language with translations in another language. It is a risky process that needs to be used with care because it actually modifies the original grids and saves them back to their own files in changed form. It is not undoable. Good practice is to duplicate the collection of grids and load it into a new RepGrids file (it is not good practice to copy the original RepGrids file because the file pointers are designed to be used to search for the original files and may find them rather than the copies). It is also good practice to test the script being developed on one grid and check that it has edited it as intended, both by loading and viewing it in RepGrid, and by opening the original and edited versions in a text editor to compare them. // This script is intended as an example of how the grids in a RepGrids dataset may be bulk .edited // Typical usage is replace the construct pole names and the elemnt names from one language to another // It edits the grids themselves and hence should be used with great care 84 // Make a copy of the collection of grids and create a new RepGrids file for that copy to ensure that your RepGrids file points to the grids you copied // It is good practice to open the RepGrids file in a text editor to check the pointers // Experiment with one grid and check you have achieved what you wish before running it on all // Recollect that grids can be examined in a text editor as well as loaded in RepGrid — check the text as well as the grid and compare the changes are those you required // new element and pole names const ELE ="E1|E2|E3|E4|E5|E6" // new element names in some readily accessible format const LHP ="L1|L2|L3|L4|L5|L6" const RHP ="R1|R2|R3|R4|R5|R6" Sub EditData() dim n As Variant, k As Integer, sel() As Integer =SocioGetAI("Select"), bnd As Integer =sel. UBound // get list of selected grid numbers 'dim range As string ="1"+TAB+"9" // used if one want to change the rating scale ranges of constructs dim s As string for k=0 to bnd n= sel(k) // get the number of a selected grid SocioSet("Grid",n) // setup the accessible grid to be the n'th grid writeln gGet("Name")+" "+gGet("File") // will write to "Response" field 's= NthField(gGet("File"),".",1) // get the grid file name without the extension 's= NthField(s," -",2) 'gSet("Name",s) // set the name field of the grid 'gSet("Note","") 'gSet("Context","new context") 'gSet("E","new element name") 'gSet("Es","new elements name") 'gSet("C","new construct name") 'gSet("Cs","new constructs name") dim i,j As variant, bndc As integer =gGetI("NC") -1, bnde As integer =gGetI("NE") -1 for i=0 to bndc Call gGet("C",i,"") // get the construct specification hSet(NthField(LHP,"|",i+1)+TAB+NthField(RHP,"|",i+1),"Labels") // edit the pole names gSet("C",i,"") // reset the construct with the new pole names next for j=0 to bnde Call gGet("E",j,"") // get the element specification hSet(NthField(ELE,"|",j+1),"Name") // edit the element name gSet("E",j,"") // reset the element with the new name next 'gSet("Save") // this command will resave the edited grid back to its file adter editing -.use with care next End Sub Sub Main() SocioSet("Field","Q","Edit Grid") // set the heading of the query field SocioSet("Field","R","Edit Grid") // set the heading of the response field SocioSet("Field","QT","") // clear query field SocioSet("Field","RT","") // clear response field EditData // call editing routine wflushln end sub // main program Main 85 8 RepGrids File Organization The function of the RepGrids tool is to manage and process collections of grids. The grid data is held in the usual RepGrid files and a RepGrids file contains pointers to these rather than directly incor.porating the data in them. The RepGrids file also records the parameters entered for the various analyses and the grouping structure created by any content analysis. In addition, RepGrids needs to track the location of a default grid and a default net holding the style information for any grids and nets resulting from analyses, and also the scripts managed and activated from the Scripts pane. 8.1 RepGrids file pointers Grid files may be added to a RepGrids database by the following actions: • Drag a directory to the Rep Plus application icon; • Drag a directory to the Rep Plus Manager windown; • Drag a grid file or a directory to a RepGrids window; • Click the Open Grid button in the Grids pane of a RepGrids window to select a grid file; • Click the Open Grids button in the Grids pane of a RepGrids window to select a directory. Only grid files that are not already in the database will be added. The first two actions create a new RepGrids window. If a directory is added then all the grid files in that directory and its sub.directories to any depth are identified and added as if they had been individually added. The name of the first directory added will be put in the Title field of the Grids pane if it is empty. RepGrids uses the same grid file identifier and decoder as RepGrid so that grid data in a wide range of formats is accepted (including WebGrid pages saved as HTML). Note that files containing a single grid are required so that the spreadsheet format, or pasted/dragged text encoding a grid, as recognized by RepGrid, will not be added to RepGrids unless it is first loaded in RepGrid and saved as a file. Regardless of how grids are added to a RepGrids database, they are all recorded in the RepGrids file through file pointer structures (Figure 96). These structures contain references both the abso.lute location of the grid file and its location relative to that of the RepGrids file as well as additional information about the file that might be used to identify it even if its location were changed. This al.lows, for example the integrity of the database to be maintained even if the contents of a grid file are edited, the RepGrids File and its grids are relocated without changing their relative locations, or, less securely, if grid files are moved to nearby locations. Figure 96: Pointers to grid files in a RepGrids file In principle the grid data files could be scattered anywhere accessible through the computer’s file system. In practice they are a major resource that need to be managed carefully and it it is usual to keep them in a single directory, perhaps with sub-directories as illustrated in Figure 96. The Rep-Grids file needs to be in a location that is well-defined relative to the grid file directories, such as in the same directory as the top level grid file directory or even inside that directory. Both options make it easy to copy the files elsewhere while maintaining the relative location references. However, there are no rigid requirements and users can set up whatever arrangements suit the way they are managing the data from their study. Note that, because RepGrids recognizes grid files by the structure of their contents, files from other applications may be included with the grid files such as research notes, photographs, statistical data, and so on. 8.2 RepGrids scripts and default grids and nets—GridsScripts directories RepGrids scripts are located in GridsScripts directories which may also contain style grids and nets. The scripts file directories for RepGrids have the same network structure as those for RepGrid and RepNet, that is with an application-supplied GridsScripts directory in the application directory, a user GridsScripts directory in the Documents or MyDocuments directory, and a data-specific GridsScripts directory in the same directory as the RepGrids database file or a surrounding direc.tory. Figure 97 shows the directory structure corresponding to the style grid and net menus of Figure 58. The files at level 3 appear in the top partition of the menu. If they are used for several RepGrids databases they could be in the surrounding directory at level 2. Those in the documents directory at level 1 appear in the central partition, and those in the application directory at level 0 in the lowest partition. For many uses of RepGrids a single directory for each collection of grid data and the default scripts and styles will be totally adequate. The flexibility of organizing the data in the ways shown in Figures 96 and 97 will not be needed. However, in large scale projects involving a team of people over a long time period, it can be useful to organize the data and associated tools in such a way that it provides a form of corporate memory of what was used where, not only in data analysis but also in presentations and publications. The Rep Plus organizational options provide the flexibility to use the operating systems’ hierar.chical filing system to manage all the notes, data, tools, analyses, presentations and publications in such large projects in a way that allows current and future studies to evolve in a manageable fashion. 8.2.1 Structure of default grids and nets The grid selected as the default is used to provide the styles for those RepGrids analyses that gener.ate a grid such as a composite grid or mode grid. It can be any grid having the required styles since these are the only information used. The analysis parameters in the generated grids are set to the normal RepGrid defaults except that the notes are set to be shown since, for the non common items, they contain the identifier of the grid from which an element or construct was extracted. The grid selected as the default is used to provide the styles for those RepGrids analyses that gen.erate a net such as a socionet or histogram. It needs to have the following ten node styles defined:.1. Link Label: style for the optional labels showing the link values in socionets —this must be the first node style as it is identified by position rather than name; 2. Cut off: style for the node showing the cut off for link values in socionets —this must be the second node style as it is identified by position rather than name—its type is also usually shown and can be different from “Cut off”, e.g. “Threshold”; 3. Title: style for the node showing showing the grids in socionets—this, and the remaining node and link labels, is identified by name and can be in any position other than first or second; 4. Grid: style for the nodes showing the title in all RepGrids plots; 5. Scale: the label style for this node is used for the scales and scale point values in histograms; 6. Construct: style for the nodes showing the construct poles in histograms; 7. Element: style for the nodes showing the element names in histograms; 8. Distribution: style for the nodes showing the distribution names in histograms—the label colour is also used for the distribution bars; 9. Distribution+: style for the nodes showing the comparative distribution data in histograms— the label colour is also used for the comparative distribution bars; 10. Statistics: style for the nodes showing the statistics of distribution comparisons. Figure 98: Node and link types in RepGrid default net It needs to have the following three link styles defined:.1. Line: style for the symmetric links between grids in socionets for grid data analyzed as having both elements and constructs in common; 2. Arrow: style for the stronger asymmetric links between grids in socionets for grid data ana.lyzed as having either elements or constructs in common; 3. Arrow-: style for the weaker reverse links between grids—this is usually just an arrow head since the line has been plotted as part of the stronger link. 9 Appendix 1: Data Sets Used in the RepGrids Manual One of the most difficult tasks in writing the RepGrids manual has been to find appropriate data sets to illustrate the tools in action that can be made publicly available so that users may explore the tools with meaningful data. The RepGrids tool were developed to support the analysis of the large sets of conceptual grids that are nowadays being used to study the conceptual structures of communities. Such large-scale studies are generally funded by organizations addressing particular issues that are sensitive and confidential to those organizations. Whilst we have been fortunate in being allowed access to such data in order to develop and test the RepGrids tools, we have used it on a confidential basis and agreed not to share it outside our research group. We do have some datasets from our own studies where we have secured agreement that, subject to suitable anonymization, the data may be shared, and have conducted further studies with recre.ational communities specifically targeted on generating datasets where, again, there is no problem with sharing the data provided there is no possibility of identifying the individuals involved. We have also secured permission to use some data in the manual for illustrative purposes provided the entire dataset is not issued. The following datasets are available in the Rep Plus Support directory and enable users to repro.duce the analyses in this manual and explore the use of all the RepGrids tools. 9.1 Study of a research group specializing in geographic mapping techniques The Geog data originated in a comparative and longitudinal study of a small research group studying geographic mapping techniques (Shaw and Gaines, 1989). The domain was a scientific one where it might be expected that many of the significant constructs would be public but it was also subject to intense ongoing collaborative research that might result in changes over time. The aim was to determine whether conceptual grid elicitation and analysis would be of value to the researchers in developing their models of the domain, and also to test the stability of the con.struct systems over time, tracking changes in individual models and in the relationships between those in the research group. Further details of the study and its methods are available in Shaw and Gaines (1989). 9.2 Study of a ballroom dance community The Dance-E data is from ballroom dance study that was undertaken in order to provide a practical example of WebGrid supporting a research method which we termed sociocognitive inquiry (Gaines and Shaw, 2012), designed to elicit conceptual models from a networked community. We chose a recreational topic with a readily accessible community where the outcomes would be readily under.standable, either through personal experience, or through the widely available instructional litera.ture. The Dance-EC data is from an extension of the ballroom dance study to a larger community where we used the consensual elements and constructs from the first study in an exchange grid and asked a larger community of dancers to rate the elements on the constructs, allowing them to add additional items if they wished. The focus group had 10 members and the community group 77 members. This research method has been used is several business studies (Öhman et al., 2006; Bellman, 2012; Bellman et al., 2016; Rad et al., 2013) where: a focus group agrees on a domain and purpose; selects a set of elements within the domain representative of that purpose; constructs are elicited from the focus group that distinguish those elements; a mode grid analysis is used to derive the con.sensual constructs; and members of the community under study are asked to rate the selected el.ements on the focus group’s consensual constructs, adding additional personal elements and con.structs as they see fit; the community is stratified along dimensions representing the objectives of the study; and RepGrids tools are used to analyze the data collected. 9.3 Study of product development in a manufacturing company The Project67 data is from a study of the conceptual models of senior management a small appli.ance manufacturing company concerned to develop new products to address an erosion in market share. The original data was proprietary but we were allowed to create an available set in which the domain, the element names and some of the construct pole names have been changed to anonymize the data whilst preserving the types of issue that arose in the analyses. The study was also used to experiment with the use of networked personal computers to support communication in the group Shaw and Gaines (1991) in an era when the World Wide Web had yet to evolve. 9.4 Study of knowledge engineering for expert systems The BIAIT data is from an early study of the applicability of conceptual grid elicitation and analysis to the development of expert systems (Shaw and Gaines, 1983), We had suggested this usage in an earlier publication (Gaines and Shaw, 1980) which had aroused industrial interest, and undertook a proof of concept study to determine whether the conceptual structure underlying a well-specified business process analysis technique (Carlson, 1979; Leshob et al., 2015) could be reconstructed from grids elicited from individuals having varying degrees of knowledge of the domain but not of the technique. 10 Bibliography Aggarwal, C. C. (2013). An introduction to outlier analysis. In Outlier Analysis, pages 1–40. Springer, New York, NY. Agresti, A. (2010). Analysis of Ordinal Categorical Data. Wiley, New York. Barcus, F. E. (1960). Theory and Methodology of Content Analysis. PhD thesis. Bellman, L. (2012). Auktoriserade fastighetsvärderares syn på värdering: tankemönster om kommersiella fastigheter. Licentiate thesis. Bellman, L., Lind, H., and Öhman, P. (2016). How does education from a high-status university affect professional property appraisers’ valuation judgments? Journal of Real Estate Practice and Education, 19(2):99–124. Birnbaum, Z. W. (1956). On a use of the Mann-Whitney statistic. In Proceedings of the Third Berke.ley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability, Volume 1: Contributions to the Theory ofStatistics, pages 13–17. University of California Press, Berkeley, LA. Carlson, W. M. (1979). Business information analysis and integration technique (biait): the new horizon. ACM SIGMIS Database, 10(4):3–9. Cliff, N. (1993). Dominance statistics: Ordinal analyses to answer ordinal questions. Psychological Bulletin, 114(3):494–509. Cliff, N. (2014). Ordinal Methods for Behavioral Data Analysis. Psychology Press. Cumming, G. (2012). Understanding the New Statistics: Effect Sizes, Confidence Intervals, and Meta-analysis. Routledge, New York. Fitzgerald, M. (2012). Introducing Regular Expressions. O’Reilly, Sebastopol, CA. Gaines, B. R. and Shaw, M. L. G. (1980). New directions in the analysis and interactive elicitation of personal construct systems. International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, 13(1):81–116. Gaines, B. R. and Shaw, M. L. G. (2012). Sociocognitive inquiry. In Ting, I.-H., Hong, T.-P., and Liang, L. S., editors, Social Network Mining, Analysis and Research Trends: Techniques and Applica.tions, pages 35–55. IGI Global, PA, USA. Gower, J. C. and Dijksterhuis, G. B. (2004). Procrustes Problems. Oxford University Press, Oxford. Hedges, L. V. and Olkin, I. (1985). Statistical Methods for Meta-analysis. Academic Press, Orlando. Honey, P. (1979). The repertory grid in action: how to use it to conduct an attitude survey. Industrial and Commercial Training, 11(11):452–459. Howe, J. (2008). Crowdsourcing: Why the Power of the Crowd is Ddriving the Future of Business. Crown Business, New York, 1st edition. Jankowicz, D. (2004). The Easy Guide to Repertory Grids. Wiley, Chichester, UK. Kenney, J. F. and Keeping, E. S. (1951). Mathematics of Statistics 2. Van Nostrand, Princeton, NJ. Krippendorff, K. (2013). Content Analysis: An Introduction to Its Methodology. Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA. Lakens, D. (2013). Calculating and reporting effect sizes to facilitate cumulative science: a practical primer for t-tests and anovas. Frontiers in psychology, 4. Leshob, A., Mili, H., and Boubaker, A. (2015). Ontology-driven process specialization. In Beny.oucef, M., Weiss, M., and Mili, H., editors, E-Technologies: 6th International Conference, MCETECH 2015, pages 3–19. Springer, Cham. Mann, H. B. and Whitney, D. R. (1947). On a test of whether one of two random variables is stochastically larger than the other. Annals Mathematical Statistics, 18(1):50–60. Mood, A. M. (1954). On the asymptotic efficiency of certain nonparametric two-sample tests. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 25(3):514–522. Neuendorf, K. A. (2002). The Content Analysis Guidebook. Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA. Öhman, P., Häckner, E., Jansson, A.-M., and Tschudi, F. (2006). Swedish auditors’ view of auditing: Doing things right versus doing the right things. European Accounting Review, 15(1):89–114. Rad, A., Wahlberg, O., and Öhman, P. (2013). How lending officers construe assessments of small and medium-sized enterprise loan applications: a repertory grid study. Journal of Constructivist Psychology, 26(4):262–279. Richardson, P. J. S. (1946). A History of English Ballroom Dancing, 1910-45. The story of the developmentof the modern English style. Herbert Jenkins, London. Shaw, M. L. G. (1979). Conversational heuristics for eliciting shared understanding. International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, 11:621–634. Shaw, M. L. G. (1980). On Becoming a Personal Scientist: Interactive Computer Elicitation of Personal Models of the World. Academic Press, London. Shaw, M. L. G. and Gaines, B. R. (1983). A computer aid to knowledge engineering. In Proceedings of British Computer Society Conference on Expert Systems, pages 263–271. British Computer Society, Cambridge. Shaw, M. L. G. and Gaines, B. R. (1989). Comparing conceptual structures: consensus, conflict, correspondence and contrast. Knowledge Acquisition, 1(4):341–363. Shaw, M. L. G. and Gaines, B. R. (1991). Extending electronic mail with conceptual modeling to provide group decision support. In COCS’91: Proceedings of Conference on Organizational Computing Systems, pages 153–158. ACM Press, New York. Tukey, J. W. (1962). The future of data analysis. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 33(1):1–67. Tukey, J. W. (1977). Exploratory Data Analysis. Addison-Wesley series in behavioral science. Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., Reading, MA. Tukey, J. W. (1980). We need both exploratory and confirmatory. The American Statistician, 34(1):23–25. Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of Practice: Learning, Meaning, and Identity. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. West, M. D. (2001a). Applications of Computer Content Analysis. Progress in communication sci.ences,. Ablex, Westport, CT. West, M. D. (2001b). Theory, Method, and Practice in Computer Content Analysis. Progress in commu.nication sciences,. Ablex, Westport, CT. Wilcox, R. R. (1998). How many discoveries have been lost by ignoring modern statistical methods? American Psychologist, 53(3):300–314. Wilcoxon, F. (1945). Individual comparisons by ranking methods. Biometrics Bulletin, 1(6):80–83. Wittgenstein, L. (1953). Philosophische Untersuchungen: Philosophical investigations (trans. G.E.M. Anscombe). Blackwell, Oxford. Most of our publications cited in the references are freely available on the web 